 
 
  BOUKIE BANANE  
 
 UNIVERSAL BILINGUAL 
FUNCTIONAL LITERACY  
Dev Virahsawmy  
 
2 
 UNIVERSAL BILINGUAL  FUNCTIONAL  LITERACY  
(UBFL)  FOR THE MARITIME REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITIUS  
©Dev Virahsawmy  
 
 
DEV VIRAHSAWMY   
3 
 CONTENTS  
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
BILINGUAL LITERACY   
 
FRANZ KAFKA METAMORPHOSIS  
 
ANIMAL FARM/BAZ ZANIMO  
 
KING LEAR ACT 3  
 
TO WIND UP  
  4 
 
12 
 
20 
 
30 
 
37 
 
54 
 
  
4 
 INTRODUCTION  
Mauritius is a semi -literate Republic. By semi -literate we mean  that a very high percentage of people are  
unable to read or write with ease or fluency or are poorly educated. Some may just be able to sign their names 
but will not be able to read and understand a simple text; will be unable to write a grammatically correct and 
coherent sentence in any language. We like to boast of having a high literacy level because we assume t hat 
children who are schooled for seven years  are de facto literate. We refuse to face the fact that in spite of 
heavy investment in basic education we have failed to produce the desired effects. There may be several 
reasons why we fail but the dominant ca use is a language policy which goes against the rule of reason. 
Mauritius is the only country in the world to start teaching the basics of literacy in 3 foreign languages at one 
and the same time while at the same time ignoring totally the mother tongue (L 1) of 90% of the population and 
the second language (L 2) of the remaining 10%. This is so because the complacent governing elite in all fields of 
society do not see a need to change this situation because they and their offsprings have never had it so good . 
But we are now at a crossroads. Global warming and the resulting climate change, the crisis of western 
capitalism, the emergence of BRICS, the urgency of food security, the transformation of Mauritius into The 
Maritime Republic of Mauritius  AND OUR AMBITION TO BECOME A HIGH -INCOME ECONOMY  mean that a new 
course has to be charted. Dependence on oral  teaching methods  and semi -literacy must give way to 
UNIVERSAL BILINGUAL FUNCTIONAL LITERACY  (UBFL) . 
HOW TO ACHIEVE THIS?  
UBFL means that all citi zens, male and femal e, of 16 and over , when schooling may be stopped legally , should 
be able to read, write and count functionally. By ‘functionally’ we mean UNESCO’s 1978 definition : ‘A person is 
functionally literate who can engage in all those activitie s in which literacy is required for effective functioning 
of his group and community and also for enabling him to continue to use reading, writing and calculation for 
his own and the community’s development.’ This does not rule out that citizens may and wi ll strive for higher 
levels of literacy and attain a dvanced and creative literacy . 
To reach this goal  we must once for all be rid of unplanned pseudo -multilingualism which generates  semi -
literacy and semi -lingualism and accept the axiom that literacy must begin in the L 1 of the learner. Moreover 
the compulsory L 2 must be identified right from the start and introduced without undue delay. Another 
essential factor to be considered is t he methodology to be adopted to teach the L 2. But before choosing a 
method or a combination of methods let us first of all spell out clearly the aims of the UBFL project:  
 To acquire all language skills (listening, understanding, speaking, reading, writing and interpreting) in 
both the L 1 and the L 2. 
 To use the L 2 as medium of teaching in secondary and tertiary education  and the L 1 as compulsory 
subject . 
 To encourage  and develop  creative writing in both the L 1 and the L 2. 
 To fully standardise Morisien and he lp the emergence of a variety of English to be known as Mauritian 
English.  
 To build up translation skills and methods.  
 To promote the learning of other languages once the UBFL foundations are strong.  
 To empower the descendants of slaves and coolies.  
 To promote gender equality.  
 To make the Maritime Republic Of Mauritius a knowledge hub.  
 To reinforce  development and democracy.  
If there can be no debate as to which language is to be used initially to start the ball rolling (i.e the mother 
tongue or L 1), the  choice of the L2 , although clear , may be accompanied by some irritation, bitterness and 
5 
 frustration. For us there is only one possibility which will have the support of more than ¾ of the population. It 
is English which is already the official language an d official medium of instruction. Moreover it is the dominant 
L2 of 3 BRICS countries with which we must strengthen political and economic ties namely South Africa, India 
and The People’s Republic of China and of East Africa. To crown it all English is als o a creole language just as 
our de facto  national language, Morisien, and consequently at the level of syntax a considerable degree of skill 
transfer takes place to make grammar translation work.  
It is fashionable to decry GRAMMAR TRANSLATION (GT)  but there is plenty of empirical evidence that the 
method works well if teachers are well -versed in the theory and practice of the learner’s L 1 and the L 2 to be 
taught. Experienced teachers who have a sound knowledge  of the phonology, syntax and semantics  of the 
relevant L 1 and the L 2 and have explored the potentials of GT will agree with Tim Bowen  
(http://www.onestopenglish.com ): “At the height of the  Communicative Approach  to language learning in the 
1980s and early 1990s it became fashionable in some quarters to deride so -called "old -fashioned" methods 
and, in particular, something broadly labelled "Grammar Translat ion". There were numerous reasons for this 
but principally it was felt that translation itself was an academic exercise rather than one which would actually 
help learners to use language, and an overt focus on grammar was to learn about the target language  rather 
than to learn it.  
As with many other methods and approaches, Grammar Translation tended to be referred to in the past tense 
as if it no longer existed and had died out to be replaced world -wide by the fun and motivation of the 
communicative classro om. If we examine the principal features of Grammar Translation, however, we will see 
that not only has it not disappeared but that many of its characteristics have been central to language teaching 
throughout the ages and are still valid today.  
The Gramma r Translation method embraces a wide range of approaches but, broadly speaking, foreign 
language study is seen as a mental discipline, the goal of which may be to read literature in its original form or 
simply to be a form of intellectual development. The basic approach is to analyze and study the grammatical 
rules of the language, usually in an order roughly matching the traditional order of the grammar of Latin, and 
then to practise manipulating grammatical structures through the means of translation both  into and from the 
mother tongue.  
The method is very much based on the written word and texts are widely in evidence. A typical approach 
would be to present the rules of a particular item of grammar, illustrate its use by including the item several 
times i n a text, and practise using the item through writing sentences and translating it into the mother 
tongue. The text is often accompanied by a vocabulary list consisting of new lexical items used in the text 
together with the mother tongue translation. Accu rate use of language items is central to this approach.  
Generally speaking, the medium of instruction is the mother tongue, which is used to explain conceptual 
problems and to discuss the use of a particular grammatical structure. It all sounds rather dull  but it can be 
argued that the Grammar Translation method has over the years had a remarkable success. Millions of people 
have successfully learnt foreign languages to a high degree of proficiency and, in numerous cases, without any 
contact whatsoever with  native speakers of the language (as was the case in the former Soviet Union, for 
example).  
There are certain types of learner who respond very positively to a grammatical syllabus as it can give them 
both a set of clear objectives and a clear sense of ach ievement. Other learners need the security of the mother 
tongue and the opportunity to relate grammatical structures to mother tongue equivalents. Above all, this 
type of approach can give learners a basic foundation upon which they can then build their co mmunicative 
skills.  
6 
 Applied wholesale of course, it can also be boring for many learners and a quick look at foreign language 
course books from the 1950s and 1960s, for example, will soon reveal the non -communicative nature of the 
language used. Using the more enlightened principles of the Communicative Approach, however, and 
combining these with the systematic approach of Grammar Translation, may well be the perfect combination 
for many learners. On the one hand they have motivating communicative activitie s that help to promote their 
fluency and, on the other, they gradually acquire a sound and accurate basis in the grammar of the language. 
This combined approach is reflected in many of the EFL course books currently being published and, amongst 
other thing s, suggests that the Grammar Translation method, far from being dead, is very much alive and 
kicking as we enter the 21st century.  
Without a sound knowledge of the grammatical basis of the language it can be argued that the learner is in 
possession of noth ing more than a selection of communicative phrases which are perfectly adequate for basic 
communication but which will be found wanting when the learner is required to perform any kind of 
sophisticated linguistic task.”  
It must be emphasised here that  ther e is no single method which can stand on its own. Classroom situations 
demand flexibility, versatility and pragmatism. A blend of GT and the communicative method is what we 
strongly recommend.  
A quick look at certain features of Morisien and English will s how potentials and limit ation s of GT.  
WORD ORDER  
Generally speaking both Morisie n and English use a similar order of words in a sentence.  
Mo pe asiz lor enn ros . (Pronoun+verb+adverbial)  
I am sitting on a stone . (Pronoun+verb+adverbial)  
 But with adjectives  there is a difference. In English adjectives are prenominal while in Morisien there 
are prenominal and postnominal adjectives.  
A beautiful girl; an intelligent girl...  
Enn zoli tifi; enn tifi entelizan...  
 In both languages adverbs behave in the same way:  
 Sentence adverbs or adverbials may be realised at the beginning or at the end of sentences.  
Yer mo ti al get li/ mo ti al get li yer  
Yesterday I went to see him/her / I went to see him/her yesterday  
 Adverbs which modify adjectives precede them:  
Very clever / bien malen  
 Adverbs which modify verbs succeed them:  
Run fast/ galoup vit  
 
GENDER  
 In both languages gender is sex -based and is not grammaticalised as in French.  
 
TENSE AND ASPECT MARKERS  
 Both languages use tense and aspect markers:  
 
MORISIEN  Marker Tan ek  Aspe  ENGLISH  Tense and aspect 
markers  
Bala manz dipen.  Prezan  Bala eats bread.  Present tense  
Bala pe manz dipen.  Prezan progresif  Bala is eating  bread.  Present continuous  
Bala finn manz dipen.  Prezan perfektif  Bala has eaten  bread.  Present perfect  
Bala ti manz dipen.  Pase  Bala ate bread.  Past tense  
Bala ti pe  manz dipen.  Pase progresif  Bala was eating  bread.  Past continuous  
Bala ti finn  manz dipen.  Pase perfektif  Bala had eaten  bread.  Past perfect  
Bala pou manz dipen.  Fitir Bala will eat bread.  Future tense  
Bala ti pou  manz dipen...  Kondisionel  Bala would  eat bread...  Conditional  
 
7 
 PLURAL MARKERS  
 ‘bann’  is the general plural marker in Morisien. It precedes the noun.  
 English uses just a few inflections. <s> is a plural marker but there are a few exceptions or variations. 
Words ending in <ch>, <s>, <x>, <sh>, <z> take <es> as plural marker; words ending in <y> take <ies>; 
words ending in <f>, <fe> may in some cases take <ves>; <o> is replaced by <oes>; some words take 
<en> as plural marker (childre n, oxen). A few words do not have a plural form (cattle, furniture).  
 
WORD CLASSES  
 It must be remembered that word classes are not water -tight compartments. At the edge there may 
be some fluidity with words flowing from one class into another. In both English and Morisien a word 
may belong to more than one class: ‘stone’ is a noun but in  ‘a stone wall’ it functions as an adjective. 
We see the same phenomenon in Morisien: Ros/ enn miray ros.  
 English uses a copula but Morisien does not. In the sentence She is beautiful ‘is’ is a copula . In 
Morisien we simply say  ‘Li zoli’. We may say ‘zoli’  is an adjective in ‘enn zoli tifi’  but a stative verb in ‘li 
zoli’. The use of the copula is a late development in English. There are indications that a copula may 
emerge in Morisien as well. It is to be noted that the copula is not a regular feature of h uman 
languages. Arabic does not use it. This is why it is not advisable to use the concept ‘zero copula/ 
copule zero’ in describing the syntax of Morisien.  
 English uses <ed> to mark the past tense. ‘Walk’  becomes ‘walked’ (verb+ed) . But there are quite a 
few irregular verbs. Learners of UBLF are advised to memorise them and then with practice they will 
come ‘naturally’. ‘Ti’ is the Morisien past tense marker.  
 
Verb (infinitive)  Past simple form  Past participle  
arise  arose  arisen  
awake  awoke  awoken  
bear  bore  borne  
beat  beat  beaten  
become  became  became  
begin  began  begun  
bend  bent  bent  
beset  beset  beset  
bet bet/betted  bet 
bid bid bid 
bind  bound  bound  
bite bit bitten  
bleed  bled  bled  
blow  blew  blown  
break  broke  broken  
breed  bred  bred  
bring  brought  brought  
broadcast  broadcast  broadcast  
build  built  built  
burn  burnt/burned  burnt/burned  
burst  burst  burst  
buy bought  bought  
cast cast cast 
catch  caught  caught  
choose  chose  chosen  
cling  clung  clung  
come  came  come  
cost cost cost 
creep  crept  crept  
cut cut cut 
 deal   dealt   dealt  
 dig  dug  dug 
8 
 dive  dived/dove (AmE)  dived  
do did done  
draw  drew  drawn  
dream  dreamt/  
dreamed  dreamt/  
dreamed  
drink  drank  drunk  
drive  drove  driven  
eat ate eaten  
fall fell fallen  
feed  fed fed 
feel felt felt 
fight  fought  fought  
find found  found  
fit fit fit 
flee fled fled 
fling  flung  flung  
fly flew  flown  
forbid  forbade  forbidden  
forget  forgot  forgotten  
forego/forgo  forewent  foregone  
forgive  forgave  forgiven  
forsake  forsook  forsaken  
foretell  foretold  foretold  
freeze  froze  frozen  
get got got/gotten (AmE)  
give gave  given  
go went  gone  
grind  ground  ground  
grow  grew  grown  
hang  hung  hung  
hang  hanged  hanged  
have  had had 
hear  heard  heard  
hide  hid hidden  
hit hit hit 
hold  held  held  
hurt  hurt  hurt  
keep  kept  kept  
kneel  knelt  knelt  
know  knew  known  
lay laid laid 
lead  led led 
lean  leant/leaned  leant/leaned  
leap  leapt/leaped  leapt/leaped  
learn  learnt/learned  learnt/learned  
leave  left left 
9 
 lend  lent lent 
let let let 
lie lay lain 
light  lit/lighted  lit/lighted  
lose lost lost 
make  made  made  
mean  meant  meant  
meet  met met 
misspell  misspelt/  
misspelled  misspelt/  
misspelled  
mistake  mistook  mistaken  
mow  mowed  mowed/mown  
overcome  overcame  overcome  
overdo  overdid  overdone  
overtake  overtook  overtaken  
overthrow  overthrew  overthrown  
pay paid  paid  
plead  pleaded/plead  pleaded/plead  
prove  proved  proved/proven  
put put put 
quit quit quit 
read  read  read  
rid rid rid 
ride rode  ridden  
ring rang  rung  
rise rose  risen  
run ran run 
saw sawed  sawn/sawed  
say said said 
see saw seen  
seek  sought  sought  
sell sold sold 
send  sent  sent  
set set set 
sew sewed  sewn/sewed  
shake  shook  shaken  
shear  sheared  sheared/shorn  
shed  shed  shed  
shine  shone  shone  
shoot  shot  shot  
show  showed  shown  
shrink  shrank  shrunk  
shut  shut  shut  
10 
 sing sang  sung  
sink sank  sunk  
sit sat sat 
sleep  slept  slept  
slay slew  slayed/slain  
slide  slid slid 
sling  slung  slung  
slit slit slit 
smell  smelt/smelled  smelt/smelled  
smite  smote  smitten  
sow sowed  sown/sowed  
speak  spoke  spoken  
speed  sped/speeded  sped/speeded  
spell  spelt/spelled  spelt/spelled  
spend  spent  spent  
spill spilt/spilled  spilt/spilled  
spin spun  spun  
spit spat  spat  
split  split  split  
spoil  spoilt/spoiled  spoilt/spoiled  
spread  spread  spread  
spring  sprang  sprung  
stand  stood  stood  
steal  stole  stolen  
stick  stuck  stuck  
sting  stung  stung  
stink  stank  stunk  
stride  strode  stridden  
strike  struck  struck  
strive  strove  striven  
swear  swore  sworn  
sweep  swept  swept  
swell  swelled  swelled/swollen  
swim  swam  swum  
swing  swung  swung  
take  took  taken  
teach  taught  taught  
tear tore  torn  
tell told told 
think  thought  thought  
thrive  thrived/throve  thrived  
throw  threw  thrown  
thrust  thrust  thrust  
11 
 tread  trod  trodden  
understand  understood  understood  
uphold  upheld  upheld  
upset  upset  upset  
wake  woke/waked  woken/waked  
wear  wore  worn  
weave  wove/weaved  woven/weaved  
wed  wedded/wed  wedded/wed  
weep  wept  wept  
win won  won  
wind  wound  wound  
withdraw  withdrew  withdrawn  
withhold  withheld  withheld  
withstand  withstood  withstood  
wring  wrung  wrung  
write  wrote  written  
 
If grammar translation is an efficient tool to teach reading and writing it has to be complemented by the 
communicative approach to reinforce oral skills. Special exercises have to be devised and plenty of practice 
offered to make learners of English familiar and proficient in the use of stress. Morisien is syllable -timed and 
English is stress -timed. Learners whose first language is syllable -timed often have problem s producing the 
unstressed sounds in a stress -timed language like English, tending to give them equal  stress . 
 
Some phonemes may also cause difficulty and embarassm ent and need special attention.  
 They are the dental fricatives  as <th> in this, that, those  often pronounced zis, zat, zoz ; 
 the post -alveolar fricatives  as in ship, measure  not to be confused with sip and mezie ; 
 the glottal fricative  /h/ which helps to distinguish ‘hat’ from ‘at’;  ‘hair’ from ‘air’ ...  
 the approximant  <r> which should not be confused with the uvular fricative used in Morisien. 
Distinguish between English ‘red’ (rouz) and Morisien ‘red’ (stiff).  
 Moreover in English there are short and long vowels  which help to distinguish between ‘shit’ and 
‘sheet’; ‘ship’ and ‘sheep’; ‘sit’ and ‘seat’.  
Knowledge of these facts is not enough. Supervised practice is essential.  
 
Learners must also note that phrasal verb is a feature of English and not of Morisien. This should not be 
construed as a problem for there are lexical  elements in Morisien to compensate: take after: resanble; take 
off: dekole; take out: sorti ar; take over: pran kontrol.  
 
The transfer of skills is not always smooth as the learner has to face language interference. Morisien uses 
double negatives but stan dard English does not; there are words in Morisien which sound like English words 
but have different meanings: English ‘to assist’ and Morisien ‘asiste’; English ‘raze’ and Morisien ‘raze’; English 
‘alert’ and Morisien ‘alert’ as in ‘tifi la alert’.  
 
The d evelopment of UBFL is not to be perceived as mechanical transfer of skills. It is a highly creative actvity 
which is painstaking, requiring diligence and care but which yields great rewards.  
 
 
  
12 
 BILINGUAL  LITERACY  
L1 literacy will grow rapidly if and only if pupils, teachers, parents and the community at large are well -
prepared and are adequately motivated. The passage from oral to literate skills  can be very smooth, dynamic 
and highly creative if teachers are well -trained and the early presence of L 2 learning will certainly clear hurdles 
and help to overcome fears of marginalisation in a highly inter -connected world.  With the exception of what is 
being done in some private schools, most language teachers in Mauritius have no knowledge and experience 
of teaching L 1 literacy. In this field , work will have to start from scratch , although what is being done in 
PREVOKBEK classes and in ‘literesi bileng ’ (bilingual literacy)  classes run by the Mauritius Prison s Service will 
certainly help, and we will have t o hire the services of foreign experts to be supported by local talents to 
prepare the syllabus,  train teachers and prepare classroom material.  
It is proposed to start basic literacy in English as from Day1 with formal teaching and plenty of games and fun  
activities. While L 1 literacy is being developed, some cognate lessons may be discovered to kick -
start L 2 learning. Here are some examples:  
 We may use words meant to teach L 1 spelling to  teach L 2 vocabulary as in the following table : 
 
MORISIEN  DESEN/FOTO  ANGLE  
avion  
 airplane  
bol 
 bowl  
po 
 pot  
televizion  
 television  
Mersi Google pou sa kat zimaz la  
NB: While L 1 phoneme and grapheme correspondence is being taught, the same exercise may be used to build 
up L 2 vocabulary.  The table below illustrates this point.  
  

13 
 PHONEME/GRAPHEME CORRESPONDENCE  
 GRAFEM SENP   GRAFEM SENP  
a Abakis (abacus); adolesan (adolescent); afro 
(afro); agrikiltir (agriculture); avion (airplane); 
aveg (blind);  n Nam (soul); naze (to swim); nene (nose); ner 
(nerve); neseser (necessary); niaz (cloud); nivo 
(level); nom (name); nou (we);  
b Baba (baby); balon (bal loon); bato (boat); bazar 
(market); betel (betel leaf); boutey (bottle); ble 
(blue); bravo (bravo);  o Odio (audio); oditer (auditor); ofsho r (offshore); 
ofsayd (offside); okipe (busy); olenpik (olympic); 
operasion (operation);  
d Dalo (drain pipe); dilo (water); dolok (Indian 
drum); douz (twelve); dilwil (oil); drame (laze 
about);  p Pale (palace); paz (page); peye (pay); plastik 
(plastic); pom (apple); pos (pocket); pratik 
(practical);  prefer (prefer);  
e Ebenn (ebony); eg (sour); ekriven (writer); 
elekter (voter); elikopter (helicopter); emosion 
(emotion);  r Rado (raft); rato (rake ); reken (shark); rezen 
(grape); rise (to pull); rize (cunning); rob (dress); 
roz (rose); rouz (red);  
f Fam (woman); fakter (postman); fami (family); 
feb (weak); fet (festival); figir (face); formenn 
(foreman); fourmi (ant);  s Salad (salad); sere (tight);  seye (to try); sizo 
(scissors); solda (soldier); sosis (sausage);  soude 
(to weld); soufle (blow);  
g Gabzi (blunder); galon (gallon); gandia 
(cannabis); geng (gang); gid (guide); gorl (goal); 
gou (taste);  t Take (switch); tam (date); tann (not ready); tapaz 
(noise); telefonn (telephone);  tez (thesis); tied 
(lukewarm); touse (to cough);  
h Haj (hajj); hijab (hijab); horl (hall); horrni 
(shawl);  v Vann (van); vazafler (vase); vesel (crockery); vis 
(screw); voler (thief); volier (birdcage); voras 
(voracio us); vwayaz (travel);  
i Id (Eid); idantite (identity); idol (idol); ilser 
(ulcer); imid (humid); initil (useless); ipotek 
(mortgage);  w Ward (ward); waya (buttocks); websayt (website); 
wikenn (weekend); wit (eight); wiski (whisky);  
j Jal (small cymbals) ; jalsa (fun); jaz (jazz); 
jerikann (jerrycan); job (job); joukal (simpleton);  x Box (car boot); exkiz (excuse); fix (fixed); mix 
(muscle); tax (tax); taxi (taxi);  
k Kado (gift); kazot (chicken coop); kifer (why); 
kivet (basin); kol (collar); kouler (colour); krim 
(crime);  y Yam (to spy on); yer (yesterday); yev (hare); yoga 
(yoga); yoyo (yoyo);  
l Laba (there); lavi (life); lesans (fuel); leker 
(heart); lim (file); loto (car); louke (to spy); larz 
(large); lwen (far);  z Zak (jackfruit); zalimet (matc h); zanana 
(pineapple); zarden (garden); zekrou (nut); zepis 
(spice); zistwar (story);  
m Malad (ill); madegonn (breadfruit);  melanze (to 
mix); modern (modern); move (bad); mizer 
(poor); moutard (mustard);    
    
 GRAFEM -KONPOZE (konsonn)   GRAFEM -KONPOZE (konsonn)  
ch Chacha (uncle); champal (chappal); chek 
(cheque);  chombo (to hold);  ng Bang (a drug); sang (belt); tang (tanrek); lalang 
(tongue); lapang (waistline fat); kokorong (bald); 
pingpong (table tennis);  
gn dagn (sorceress); gagn (to get); pagn (saree); 
lakagn (lazy); bengn (to bathe); pengn (comb); 
rengn (reign); kongn (hit);  sh Shal (shawl); shoping (shopping); shenn (channel); 
kash (cash); smash (smash);  
 
 
14 
 GRAFEM -KONPOZE (vwayel)  GRAFEM -KONPOZE (vwayel)  
an Ban (bench); dan (in); kan (when); lan (slow); 
legan (glove); ran (rank); disan (blood); letan 
(weather); zennzan (youth);  or Bor (edge); for (strong); korn (horn); lor 
(gold); mor (dead); por (pore); tor (blame);  
ann Bann (plural marker); kann (sugarcane); lasann 
(ash);  lamann (fine); rann (boring); tann (not 
mature); vann (van); zann (son -in-law);  in Drink (drink); link (link); sink (kitchen sink);  
ar Ar (with); bar (bar); far (headlamp); kartron 
(carton); lar (art); marto (hammer); pardesi 
(overcoat); rar (rare);  inn Binn (bin); minn (noodle); lafarinn (flour); 
lakantinn (canteen); lalinn (moon); mofinn 
(bad luck); sopinn (half bottle);   
en Enbesil (silly); engra (ungrateful); enpe (a 
little); entelizan (intelligent);  ben (bath); den 
(suede); fen (hungry); dipen (br ead);  ir Dir (hard); lir (read); mir (ripe); pir (pure); 
tortir (torture); zwir (enjoy); lektir (reading); 
lekritir (writing); zwentir (joint);  
enn Enn (one); denn (turkey); genn (girdle); larenn 
(queen); lasenn (stage); senn (scene); semenn 
(week); zenn (young);  ou Bout (piece); dout (doubt); gout (drop); 
koute (cost); lous (suspicious); mous (fly); 
nou (we); pous (thumb); zouzou (toy);  
er Ber (cra ddle); frer (brother); ker (heart); ler 
(time); lamer (sea); later (earth); ser (sister); 
ver (about); yer (yesterday);  oun Dimoun (people); kloun (clown); ounde (a 
cake); pounk (fart); poun (female sex); 
tountoun (obese); voun (reed plant);  
on Bon (good ); don (donation); pon (bridge); ron 
(round); son (sound); tonton (uncle)  our Abazour (lampshade); four (oven); kour 
(course); lakour (yard); oursen (sea urchin);  
pwalour (heavy duty truck); zour (day);  
onn Donn (give); fonn (melt); ponn (lay); tonn (ton);  
zonn (yellow); kolonn (post); felonn (kriminel); 
madegonn (breadfruit);    
 
  
15 
  Songs may also be used. English songs in their original forms and in their Morisien versions could be 
quite attractive and productive.  It is important to note that materi al used is determined by age and 
level of knowledge of learners. Here we are not prescribing material but suggesting possibilities.  
 
BRIYE, BRIYE TI ZETWAL!  
 
Briye, briye ti zetwal,  
Twa ki twa mo ti zetwal?  
Lao dan lesiel fonse  
To enn diaman ki briye.  
Ler soley finn al dodo  
Lerla to alim flanbo;  
Ler tou lames finn brile  
Lerla pou twa alime.  
Vwayazer dan marenwar  
Grasa twa trouv so lagar;  
Zame li ti pou kone  
Kot so prop sime pase.  
Si to pa ti alim far  
Fernwar ti pou fer vantar.  
Mem aswar li ble fonse,  
To rey on kares lizie;  
Tank soley li pa leve,  
To lizie li pa bate.  
Mem mo pa konn to masal,  
Briye, briye mo zetwal.   
TWINKLE, TWINKLE, LITTLE STAR!  
 
Twinkle, twinkle little star,  
How I wonder  what you are.  
Up above the world   so high,  
Like a diamond  in the sky.   
When the blazing sun  is gone,  
When he nothing shines upon,  
Then you show your little light,  
Twinkle, twinkle, all the night.   
Then the trav'ller in the dark,  
Thanks you for your tiny spark,  
He could not see which way to go,  
If you did not twinkle so.  
In th e dark blue  sky you keep,  
And often thro' my curtains   peep,  
For you never shut your eye,   
Till the sun   is in the sky.  
'Tis your bright and tiny spark,  
Lights the trav'ller in the dark:  
Tho' I know not what you are,  
Twinkle, twinkle, little star.   
 
 Poem and s ongs are also handy to learn  to count or learn the names of days of the week or months of 
the year in both languages.  
SENK TI KANAR  
 
Senk ti kanar al vakarne  
Dan bor lamer kote Granbe.  
Mama Kanar dir “KWENK, KWENK kot zot?”  
Kat ti kanar retourn lakaz.  
 
Kat ti kanar al vakarne  
Dan bor lamer kote Granbe.  
Mama Kanar dir “KWENK, KWENK kot zot?”  
Trwa ti kanar retourn lakaz.  
 
Trwa ti kanar al vakarne  
Dan bor lamer kote Granbe.  
Mama Kanar dir “KWENK, KWENK kot zot?”  
De ti kanar retourn lakaz.  
 
De ti kanar al vakarne  
Dan bor lamer kote Granbe.  
Mama Kanar dir “KWENK, KWENK kot zot?”  
Enn ti kanar retourn lakaz.  
 
Enn ti kanar al vakarne  
Dan bor lamer kote Granbe.  FIVE LITTLE DUCKS  
 
Five little ducks went out one day 
Over  the hill  and far away  
Mother duck said "Quack, quack, quack, quack."  
But only four little ducks came back.  
 
Four little ducks went out one day  
Over  the hill  and far away  
Mother duck said "Quack, quack, quack, quack."  
But only three little ducks ca me back.  
 
Three little ducks went out one day  
Over  the hill  and far away  
Mother duck said "Quack, quack, quack, quack."  
But only two little ducks came back.  
 
Two little ducks went out one day  
Over  the hill  and far away  
Mother duck said "Quack, quack, quack , quack."  
But only one little duck came back.  
 
One little duck went out one day  
Over  the hill  and far away  
16 
 Mama Kanar dir “KWENK, KWENK kot zot?”  
Zero kanar retourn lakaz.  
 
Pov mama la al rod bebe  
Dan bor lame r kote Granbe.  
Mama  kanar kriye KWENK for -for. 
Senk ti kanar retourn lakaz.  
 
ZANFAN LENDI  
 
Zanfan Lendi pa koz manti;  
Zanfan Mardi pa fer sanblan;  
Merkredi beni tou zanfan;  
Zanfan Zedi kontan manz fri;  
Vandredi fet, lekol fini.  
Bann zanfan Samdi pa fer fenean!  
Ler Dimans vini, dir Bondie mersi!  
 
ENA TRANT ZOUR DAN SEPTAM  
 
Ena trant zour dan Septam,  
Dan Avril, Zen ek Novam;  
Lezot ena trante -enn.  
Zis Fevriye fer so senn:  
Trwa kou ventwit, enn kou ventnef.  Mother duck said "Quack, quack, quack, quack."  
But none of the  five little ducks  came back.  
 
Sad mother duck went out one day  
Over  the hill  and far a way 
The sad mother duck said "Quack, quack, quack."  
And all of the  five little ducks  came back.  
 
MONDAYS CHILD  
 
Mondays child is fair of face,  
Tuesdays child is full of grace,  
Wednesdays child is full of woe,  
Thursdays child has far to go,  
Fridays child is  loving and giving,  
Saturdays child works hard for his living,  
And the child that is born on the Sabbath day  
Is bonny and blithe, and good and gay.  
 
30 DAYS HAS SEPTEMBER  
 
30 days has September,   
April, June and November  
All the rest have 31  
And February’s  great with 28  
And Leap Year’s February’s fine with 29  
 
 We could also use short stories and fables in the 2 languages.  
 
THE DOG, THE COCK, AND THE FOX  
A dog and a cock, who were the best of friends, 
wished very much to see something of the world. 
So they decided to leave the farmyard and to set 
out into the world along the road that led to the 
woods. The two comrades travelled along in the 
very best of spirits and without meeting any 
adventure to speak of.  
At nightfall the cock, looking for a place to roos t, as 
was his custom, spied nearby a hollow tree that he 
thought would do very nicely for a night's lodging. 
The dog could creep inside and the cock would fly 
up on one of the branches. So said, so done, and 
both slept very comfortably.  
With the first glim mer of dawn the cock awoke. For 
the moment he forgot just where he was. He 
thought he was still in the farmyard where it had 
been his duty to arouse the household at daybreak. 
So standing on tip -toes he flapped his wings and 
crowed lustily. But instead of awakening the 
farmer, he awakened a fox not far off in the wood. 
The fox immediately had rosy visions of a very 
delicious breakfast. Hurrying to the tree where the 
cock was roosting, he said very politely:  
"A hearty welcome to our woods, honored sir. I ZISTWAR LISIEN, KOK EK RENAR  
Dan laferm Misie Koutou ti ena enn lisien ek enn kok 
ki ti de torsenn kole. Zot ti toultan ansam. Enn  zour 
zot ti desid pou fer enn vwayaz pou kone ki ti ena lot 
kote baraz banbou ki ti fer letour laferm la. San 
ezitasion, nou de konper ti lor larout lavantir ki ti al 
dan direksion danbwa. Pandan enn zourne zot ti 
marse san okenn difikilte. Zot lespri vif  ti bien exite. Ti 
zot premie gran lavantir.  
Ler labrim ti leve e ler dormi ti vini, ti bizen trouv enn 
landrwa. Normal kok ti kone ki ti bizen fer. Ti ena enn 
pie ar enn gran trou dan so tron. Kok ti panse ki lisien 
ti kapav pas lanwit dan trou la pandan ki li, li ti kas 
enn poz lor enn brans. Zot toulede ti pas enn lanwit 
pezib ek konfortab.  
Ler barlizour ti koumans ekler lesiel dan les, kok so 
somey ti kase. Pov kok ti bliye kot li ti ete. Li ti sir li ti 
touzour dan laferm kot toulegramaten li ti so lat as 
pou lev tou dimoun. Li ti dibout lor pwent lipie, bat 
lezel, dres likou e larg enn koukouroukouk pwisan. 
Me olie lev Misie Koutou, li ti kas somey renar ki ti pe 
dormi pa tro lwen. Renar la ti koumans pans enn 
nasta extra. So lapeti ti fite net. Li ti k oste ar pie kot 
kok ti ete e dan so manier gran kouyoner li ti dir kok 
la: “Ayo mo bourzwa! Ou pa kapav kone ki kantite 
17 
 cannot tell you how glad I am to see you here. I am 
quite sure we shall become the closest of friends."  
"I feel highly flattered, kind sir," replied the cock 
slyly. "If you will please go around to the door of 
my house at the foot of the tree, my porter will let 
you in."  
The hungry but unsuspecting fox, went around the 
tree as he was told, and in a twinkling the dog had 
seized him.  nou fier pou akeyir ou dan nou danbwa, Rezidans 
Lamitie. Bienveni, mil fwa bienveni, Gran Dimoun!”  
Kok pa ti enn gopia. Li ti reponn ren ar ar boukou 
polites. “Li enn gran plezir zwenn dimoun poli, onet 
ek senser kouma ou. Fer mwa loner vinn zwenn mwa 
lao. Fer letour mo lakaz e dan grawnflor ou pou trouv 
laport lantre. Laba mo portie pou les ou rantre.”  
Pa bizen dir! Renar pa ti perdi letan . Li ti fer letour e ti 
trouv laport. San gete li ti fons drwat andan. Lisien ti 
fou li kap.  
 
These two versions could be used to teach reading, to test spelling  and punctuation , to encourage class 
discussion on wisdom and moral issues in both languages.  
 
 Depending on the maturity of learners in both languages, more advanced literature material could be 
used.  For example William Blake  in English and Morisien.  
 
  
18 
 THE CLOD AND THE PEBBLE  
 
‘Love seeketh not itself to please,  
Nor for itself hath any care,  
But for another gives its ease,  
And builds a heaven in hell’s despair.’  
 
So sung a little clod of clay,  
Trodden with the cattle’s feet,  
But a pebble of the brook  
Warbled out these metres meet:  
 
‘Love seeketh only Self to please,  
To bind another to its delight,  
Joys in another’s loss of ease,  
And builds a hell in heaven’s despite.’  
 
THE TIGER  
 
Tiger, tiger, burning bright  
In the forests of the night,  
What immortal hand or eye  
Could frame thy fearful symmetry?  
 
In what distant deeps or skies  
Burnt the fir e of thine eyes?  
On what wings dare he aspire?  
What the hand dare seize the fire?  
 
And what shoulder and what art  
Could twist the sinews of thy heart?  
And, when thy heart began to beat,  
What dread hand and what dread feet?  
 
What the hammer? what the chain?  
In what furnace was thy brain?  
What the anvil? what dread grasp  
Dare its deadly terrors clasp?  
 
When the stars threw down their spears,  
And watered heaven with their tears,  
Did He smile His work to see?  
Did He who made the lamb make thee?  
 
Tiger, tiger, b urning bright  
In the forests of the night,  
What immortal hand or eye  
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?  
 
LONDON  
 
I wander through each chartered street,  
Near where the chartered Thames does flow,  
A mark in every face I meet,  
Marks of weakness, marks of woe.  
 ENN PLOT LATER EK ENN KAYOU  
 
"Lamour pa rod so prop bienet.  
Li pa pran kont so prop lavi  
Me pou lotla li k as latet  
E fer lanfer vinn paradi."  
 
Samem sante enn plot later  
Ler lapat bef pil -pil lor li  
Me enn kayou dan bor dilo  
Sant enn sante zis bon pou li:  
 
"Lamour nek rod so prop bienet,  
Ansenn lezot pou so nisa,  
Ar larm lezot li ranz so fwet,  
Fer lanfer aval Nirrvana."  
 
TIG 
 
TigOTig, laflam lespwar,  
Ekler lafore dan nwar;  
Ki Lame ek ki Lizie  
Ti fabrik pwisans regle?  
 
Dan ki lwenten galaxi  
Dife to lizie sorti?  
Lor ki lezel Li'anvole?  
Ki Lame ti chom dife?  
 
Ki talan ek ki zekler  
Ti tourn ner dan to leker?  
Ler leker koumans bate,  
Ki Lame ek ki Lipie?  
 
Ki lasenn ek ki marto?  
Ki laforz moul to servo?  
Ki lanklim? Kot sa trape  
Gagn kouraz tini pwagne?  
 
Kan zetwal depoz zot zarm,  
Lor lesiel zot vers zot larm,  
Eski So sourir ti la?  
Papa Agno, to papa sa?  
 
TigOTig, laf lam lespwar,  
Ekler lafore dan nwar;  
Ki Lame ek ki Lizie  
Pe fabrik pwisans regle?  
 
PORLWI  
 
Ler mo mars lor lari kapital  
Akote larivier liberal,  
Mo trouv partou mem sikatris:  
Tras febles ek tras tristes.  
 
19 
 In every cry of every man,  
In every infant’s cry of fear,  
In every voice, in every ban,  
The mind -forged manacles I hear:  
 
How the chimney -sweeper’s cry  
Every blackening church appals,  
And the hapless soldier’s sigh  
Runs in blood down palace -walls.  
 
But mo st, through midnight streets I hear  
How the youthful harlot’s curse  
Blasts the new -born infant’s tear,  
And blights with plagues the marriage hearse.  
 Dan sak lavwa ki mo tande,  
Dan lavwa zanfan ki tranble,  
Dan sak diskour, dan sak kontra  
Menot mantal pe fer fraka.  
 
Zanfan pe fer travo forse,  
Fer miray nwar vinn blan Legliz;  
Solda vant vid ar soupire  
Miray lerwa pentir anrouz.  
 
Dan lari minwi ekout bien!  
To pou tann tifi vann lekor  
Modi baba so prop leren;  
Modi for -for karos lamor.  
 
 Or poems originally written in Morisien and translated into English.  
 
ADORASION  
 
Dilo sakre Granbasen  
Kavo sakre Perlaval  
Ros Nwar sakre dan Kaaba  
Tou bann pelren zwenn pou ador Sakre  
Mwa pov bachara dan tousa Senier  
Mo pa pe trouv twa. Pardonn mwa!  
Me kan lame -lipie enn bieneme  
atas lekor ar lekor; kan lalev  
fonn dan zouisans parfime;  
kan laverite touni pe ofer  
bote eternel partaze;  
kan lekor ekler lespri,  
lespri fer lekor vinn sen  
dan li se Twa mo adore.  WORSHIP  
 
Grand Bassin's sacred water  
Father Laval's sacred shrine  
Kaaba's sacred stone  
Pilgrims meet, worship Sacred  
But dear God forgive a poor soul,  
In all these I see thee not.  
But when limbs with limbs  
lovers bind; when lips melt  
with perfumed thrills;  
when truth nak ed offers  
eternal beauty shared;  
when body shines on mind;  
and mind blesses body  
in her I find You, O Beloved.  
 
LASOURS  
 
Sime la li bien -bien long  
Sime la li bien -bien dir  
Komie finn pas lor la avan mwa  
Zegoui dife dan lesiel  
Lapousier dan mo labous  
Mo la gorz pe amar -amare  
Lasours la li ankor lwen  
Bien -bien fre, bien -bien kler  
Lasours kot nou tou pou al bwar  
 
Simitier ranpli ar fler  
Kot bann frer finn depoz zarm  
Sime la li pas kot simitier  
Mo lavi kouma lapousier  
Pou fini dan simitier  
Mo lespwar zame li pa  pou tengn  
Pou sak flanbo ki pou tengn  
Ena mil pou alime  
Ziska ki sime tous lasours  
 THE FOUNTAIN  
 
This hard road is mighty long  
This long road is mighty hard  
How many are they who trod it's dust  
Fiery darts are in the sky  
Choking dust is in my mouth  
And my throat narrows down to g asp 
The fresh fountain's miles ahead  
All so clear, all so cool  
That's where we'll all drink our joy  
 
Graveyard's full of pretty flowers  
Where pals lay down their arms  
The road goes by the burial ground  
My life's just a speck of dust  
Which seeks sleep in a graveyard  
But hope will not blow out its light  
For each light which does go out  
Thousands will kindle new hope  
Showing the way to the fountain  
 
20 
 Marenwar pe rod nway mwa  
Marekaz pe rod bwar mwa  
Ena kamrad ferm koste ar mwa  
Me dime komie pou ena  
Ler soley manz marenwar  
Komie ki pa ankor vinn fler  
Seki yer swar ti ar  mwa  
Zordi nek enn souvenir  
Souvenir ki lour dan mo leker  
 
Nou bizin met sime kler  
Nou bizin konstrir bann pon  
Pous par pous, pa par pa ziska lasours  
Mem si nou nou pa gagn sans  
Nou zanfan va profite  
Lapousier pou vinn lalimier  
Lasours la li ankor lwen  
Bien-bien fre, bien -bien kler  
Lasours kot nou tou pou al bwar  Darkness tries to gobble me  
The swamp tries to swallow me  
Some pals and I are huddling through  
But tomorrow who' ll be there  
When the sun sucks in the swamp  
Who's not buried in petals  
Some are gone who once were here  
Now only a memory  
Memory heavy on my heart  
 
We must all clear out a path  
We must all build out bridges  
Step by step towards the fresh fountain  
Even if w e don't get there  
Our children surely will  
For dust will turn into light  
The fresh fountain's miles ahead  
All so clear, all so cool  
That's where we'll all drink our joy  
 
As bilingual  literacy skills develop , more sophisticated texts could be used from canon literature  (Kafka, George 
Orwell and, why not, Shakespeare ). 
FRANZ KAFKA METAMORFOZ  
TEX SOURS: VERSION ANGLE PAR David Wyllie  
 
Enn gramaten, ler Gregor Samsa so somey, trouble 
par kosmar terib, ti kase, li  ti dekouver ki, lor so lili, 
li ti finn vinn enn bebet kouma enn kankretorti 
zean. Li ti alonze lor so ledo -lakok, e ler li ti lev so 
latet enn tigit li ti kapav get so vant maron ki ti 
enpe sorti e ki ti akot kouma tol kannle. So dra ti 
vinn tro tipti po u kouver so gro vant e koumadir li ti 
pre pou glise, tonbe. So bann lapat meg -meg 
konpare ar so lekor ti pe bat fol dan ler.  
 
"Ki finn ariv mwa?" li ti panse. Pa ti enn rev sa. So 
lasam, enn lasam normal, enpe tipti kikfwa, ti pe 
repoz anpe ant kat miray f amilie. Lor latab ti ena 
enn koleksion santiyon latwal - Samsa ti enn 
revander anbilan - e lao lor miray ti ena enn foto ki 
li ti koupe dan enn revi e ki li ti met dan enn kad 
kouler larzan. Foto la ti montre enn madam ki ti 
ena enn sapo fourir, enn esarp fourir otour so likou. 
Li ti asiz drwat e li ti pe ris enn fouro fourir otour so 
lame ek avanbra ki ti leve ver dimoun ki pe get foto 
la. 
 
Lerla Gregor get letan mosad par lafnet. Lapli ti pe 
tap lor vit e sa ti fer li tris. "Si mo redormi e bliye 
tousa", li ti panse, me li ti enkapab fer sa parski li ti 
abitie dormi lor so kote drwat e li pa ti pe kapav FRANZ KAFK A METAMORPHOSIS  
Translated by David Wyllie  
 
One morning, when Gregor Samsa woke from 
troubled dreams, he found himself transformed in his 
bed into a horrible vermin.  He lay on his armour -like 
back, and if he lifted his head a little he could see his 
brown  belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into 
stiff sections.  The bedding was hardly able to cover it 
and seemed ready to slide off any moment.  His many 
legs, pitifully thin compared with the size of the rest of 
him, waved about helplessly as he look ed.   
"What's happened to me?" he thought.  It wasn't a 
dream.  His room, a proper human room although a 
little too small, lay peacefully between its four familiar 
walls.  A collection of textile samples lay spread out on 
the table - Samsa was a travelling  salesman - and 
above it there hung a picture that he had recently cut 
out of an illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, 
gilded frame.  It showed a lady fitted out with a fur hat 
and fur boa who sat upright, raising a heavy fur muff 
that covered the who le of her lower arm towards the 
viewer.   
Gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull 
weather.  Drops of rain could be heard hitting the 
pane, which made him feel quite sad.  "How about if I 
sleep a little bit longer and forget all this nonsense" , 
he thought, but that was something he was unable to 
do because he was used to sleeping on his right, and in 
his present state couldn't get into that position.  
However hard he threw himself onto his right, he 
always rolled back to where he was.  He must have 
tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he 
21 
 tourn so lekor. Mem li sey tourn so lekor ar tou so 
lafors adrwat, li ti pe retourn lor so ledo. Li ti finn 
seye omwen san fwa, ti ferm so lizie pou pa get  so 
bann lapat mol -mol, e li ti arete ler li ti koumans 
santi, premie fwa kot so lapat, enn ti douler mat.  
 
"Ayo Bondie", li ti panse, "ki kalite karyer fatigan 
mo finn swazir! Vwayaze, vwayaze toulezour. Fer 
biznes sa mannyer la li plis difisil ki fer biz nes dan 
ou lakaz; azout lor la malediksion kan ou toultan lor 
larout, traka ki ou rat tren ki ou bizen pran, fay 
nouritir ki pa manze dan ler, zwenn toutsort kalite 
dimoun nenport ki ler me ar ki pa kapav etablir 
relasion dirab. Mo bien anvi avoy tousa fer fout." Li 
ti santi enn ti grate lor so vant; dousma, li ti ris so 
lekor lor so ledo pou apiy so latet lor dosie lili la; li ti 
trouv kot grate la ti ete; li ti kouver ar tipti pwen 
blan san konpran ki sa ti kapav ete; e ler li ti rod 
tous li ar enn so lapa t, li ti bizen retir li deswit 
parski kouma li ti tous li, li ti gagn enn frison ki ti fer 
li tranble.  
 
Li ti glise, retourn dan pozision avan. "Labitid lev 
boner touletan fer nou vinn kouyon." Li ti pe panse. 
"Enn dimoun bizen so somey. Ena revander anbil an 
ki pe viv dan lix. Souvan ler mo retourn dan 
pansiondfami gramaten pou fer kopi enn kontra, sa 
bann bon misie la pe ankor pe ennjoy zot tidezene. 
Si mwa mo fer sa mo patron koutpie mwa. Ki kone? 
Kikfwa samem mo bizen fer. Si mo pa ti ena pou 
okip mo par an, lontan mo ti pou fini demisione, mo 
ti pou rant dan so biro, dir li ki mo panse, dir li tou, 
dir li mo pli profon. Mo fer li sap lor sez tonbe. 
Komik sa! Asiz lor enn oter, koz ar sibaltern anba - 
sirtou ki bizen parfwa koz pre kot so zorey parski 
misie la li ase sourd. Ena lespwar. Kan mo'nn fini 
pey det mo paran dwa li - dan senk, sis an - samem 
ki mo pou fer. Lerla mo vir tou anbalao. Me aster 
mo bizen leve. Mo tren kit lagar senk -er." 
 
Li get revey lor komod. "Bondie Mama!" li dir 
limem. Ti finn fin i sizer -edmi e zegwi revey ti pe 
kontinie marse, ti fini depas sizer -edmi e ti ariv 
preske set -er mwen kenz. Revey la ti sone? Depi so 
lili li ti trouv bien kler ki li ti regle li lor kat -rer 
kouma ti dwatet; sirman li ti sone. Sa li sir me 
kimanier li ti dormi mem malgre tapaz ki li fer, fer 
meb tranble? Ti vre ki so somey ti bien trouble. 
Akoz samem kikfwa enn ti peryod somey profon ti wouldn't have to look at the floundering legs, and only 
stopped when he began to feel a mild, dull pain there 
that he had never felt before.  
"Oh, God", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is 
that I've chosen!  Travelling day in and day out.  Doing 
business like this takes much more effort than doing 
your own business at home, and on top of that there's 
the curse of travelling, worries about making train 
connections, bad and irregular food, contact with 
different people all the time so that you can never get 
to know anyone or become friendly with them.  It can 
all go to Hell!"  He felt a slight itch up on his belly; 
pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the 
headboard so that he could lift his head better; found 
where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with 
lots of little white spots which he didn't know what to 
make of; and when he tried to feel the place with one 
of his legs he drew it quickly back because as soon as 
he touched it he wa s overcome by a cold shudder.  
He slid back into his former position.  "Getting up early 
all the time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  You've 
got to get enough sleep.  Other travelling salesmen 
live a life of luxury.  For instance, whenever I go back 
to the guest house during the morning to copy out the 
contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting there 
eating their breakfasts.  I ought to just try that with my 
boss; I'd get kicked out on the spot.  But who knows, 
maybe that would be the best thing  for me.  If I didn't 
have my parents to think about I'd have given in my 
notice a long time ago, I'd have gone up to the boss 
and told him just what I think, tell him everything I 
would, let him know just what I feel.  He'd fall right off 
his desk!  And i t's a funny sort of business to be sitting 
up there at your desk, talking down at your 
subordinates from up there, especially when you have 
to go right up close because the boss is hard of 
hearing.  Well, there's still some hope; once I've got 
the money to gether to pay off my parents' debt to him 
- another five or six years I suppose - that's definitely 
what I'll do.  That's when I'll make the big change.  
First of all though, I've got to get up, my train leaves at 
five."  
And he looked over at the alarm clo ck, ticking on the 
chest of drawers.  "God in Heaven!" he thought.  It 
was half past six and the hands were quietly moving 
forwards, it was even later than half past, more like 
quarter to seven.  Had the alarm clock not rung?  He 
could see from the bed tha t it had been set for four 
o'clock as it should have been; it certainly must have 
rung.  Yes, but was it possible to quietly sleep through 
that furniture -rattling noise?  True, he had not slept 
peacefully, but probably all the more deeply because 
of that.  What should he do now?  The next train went 
at seven; if he were to catch that he would have to 
rush like mad and the collection of samples was still 
not packed, and he did not at all feel particularly fresh 
and lively.  And even if he did catch the train  he would 
22 
 anpes li tann revey sone. Ki li kapav fer la? Prosen 
tren pase set -er. Si li ti ole pran li, li ti bizen leve 
deswit, fer  extra vit; me bann esantiyon ti an 
dezord lor latab e li pa ti santi li fit. Mem si li ti reysi 
pran tren set -er li pa ti pou evit koler so patron 
parski asistan -sef dan biro ti lagar e ti kone ki tren 
senk -er ti ale san Gregor e sir -sir depi lontan li ti  
finn fini fer so rapor. Asistan -sef ti mous misie la e li 
ti enn los servo lan. Si li ti pran enn sik. Sa ti pou 
paret bien lous parski pandan kenz an servis zame li 
ti finn pran enn sel zour sik. Apre, patron la ti pou 
vinn kot li ar dokter Lasirans Medi kal; ti pou akiz so 
paran ki finn donn nesans enn fay pares; ti pou 
aksepte konsey dokter ki ti pou dir zot pa fer okenn 
kleym parski personn pa malad, ena zis bann zeb ki 
rod gagn kas san travay. Eski ti pou kapav dir li ti pe 
fer fos? Anfet Gregor ti ank or somey -somey parski 
li ti tro dormi me li ti fit e enn lafen loulou ti pe fer 
so vant grogne.  
Pandan ki li ti pe reflesi lor tousa e ki li pa ti pe 
kapav pran desizion pou leve,pandil ti sonn set -er 
mwen kenz. Kikenn ti tap dousman lor laport pre 
kot so latet. "Gregor", kikenn ti dir - ti so mama sa - 
"Finn set -er mwen kenz. To pa ti ena pou sorti?" 
Touzour mem lavwa dou e zanti! Gregor ti gagn sok 
ler li ti tann so prop lavwa reponn; pa ti ditou 
kouma so lavwa normal. Koumadir depi profonder 
so lestoma t i ena enn grensman douler enkontrolab 
ki ti melanze ar so lavwa; bann mo, toufe dan enn 
eko, ti perdi klarte e ti vinn enkonpreansib dan 
zorey seki pe ekoute. Gregor ti anvi donn enn 
repons konple ar tou detay me ti prefer zis dir: "Wi, 
'Ma, wi. Mersi! Mo pe leve la." Kikfwa sanzman dan 
so lavwa pa ti paret drol lot kote laport dibwa 
parski so mama, satisfe, ti trenn so lipie, ale. Me sa 
ti konversasion la ti fer lezot manm so fami realize 
ki Gregor ti ankor dan lakaz kan sa pa ti bizen 
koumsa e lor vites s o papa vinn tap lor enn laport 
akote, zantiman me ar so koutpwen. "Gregor, 
Gregor", li ti kriye, "ki pe ariv twa?" Enpe pli tar li ti 
revini e sannfwala ti ena enn ton avertisman dan so 
lavwa: "Gregor! Gregor!" Kot lot laport soser ti pe 
mirmire: "Gregor? To malad? Kapav ed twa? 
Gregor ti reponn toulede: "Mo'nn pare"; e li ti pe 
fer enn zefor spesial pou fer so lavwa paret normal 
par so fason koze e lespas ki li ti pe mete ant sak 
mo. So papa ti al terminn so tidezene, me so ti ser 
koz dousman kot zwen lapo rt: "Gregor, ouver sa 
laport la, mo sipliy twa." Gregor pa ti ena okenn not avoid his boss's anger as the office assistant would 
have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he 
would have put in his report about Gregor's not being 
there a long time ago.  The office assistant was the 
boss's man, spineless, and wi th no understanding.  
What about if he reported sick?  But that would be 
extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of 
service Gregor had never once yet been ill.  His boss 
would certainly come round with the doctor from the 
medical insurance co mpany, accuse his parents of 
having a lazy son, and accept the doctor's 
recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor 
believed that no -one was ever ill but that many were 
workshy.  And what's more, would he have been 
entirely wrong in this case?  Greg or did in fact, apart 
from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, 
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than 
usual.  
He was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable 
to decide to get out of the bed, when the clock struck 
quarte r to seven.  There was a cautious knock at the 
door near his head.  "Gregor", somebody called - it 
was his mother - "it's quarter to seven.  Didn't you 
want to go somewhere?"  That gentle voice!  Gregor 
was shocked when he heard his own voice answering, 
it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had 
before.  As if from deep inside him, there was a painful 
and uncontrollable squeaking mixed in with it, the 
words could be made out at first but then there was a 
sort of echo which made them unclear, leav ing the 
hearer unsure whether he had heard properly or not.  
Gregor had wanted to give a full answer and explain 
everything, but in the circumstances contented 
himself with saying: "Yes, mother, yes, thank -you, I'm 
getting up now."  The change in Gregor's voice 
probably could not be noticed outside through the 
wooden door, as his mother was satisfied with this 
explanation and shuffled away.  But this short 
conversation made the other members of the family 
aware that Gregor, against their expectations was st ill 
at home, and soon his father came knocking at one of 
the side doors, gently, but with his fist.  "Gregor, 
Gregor", he called, "what's wrong?"  And after a short 
while he called again with a warning deepness in his 
voice: "Gregor! Gregor!"  At the other  side door his 
sister came plaintively: "Gregor? Aren't you well?  Do 
you need anything?"  Gregor answered to both sides: 
"I'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the 
strangeness from his voice by enunciating very 
carefully and putting long pauses between each, 
individual word.  His father went back to his breakfast, 
but his sister whispered: "Gregor, open the door, I beg 
of you."  Gregor, however, had no thought of opening 
the door, and instead congratulated himself for his 
cautious habit, acquired  from his travelling, of locking 
all doors at night even when he was at home.   
The first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace 
23 
 lentansion ouver laport la. Okontrer li ti pe felisit 
limem pou so bon labitid ki li ti devlope pandan so 
bann vwataz. Li ti toultan ferm so laport akle aswar, 
mem kan li ti kot li.  
 
Premie zafer ki li ti kontan se leve anpe san ki 
dimoun deranz li, abiye e pran so tidezene. Apre 
naste ki li ti deside ki pou fer answit parski li ti bien 
konsian ki li pa ti pou kapav organiz so lespri si li ti 
res lor lili. Li ti rapel ki li ti finn souv an santi enn 
douler lor lili, koze kikfwa par dormi dan enn move 
pozision me sa ti dan so limazinasion. Li ti anvi kone 
ki manier so bann problem imaziner ti pou trouv 
lizour zordi. Li ti sir ki sa sanzman dan so lavwa ti zis 
premie sign ki li ti pe kouman s gagn lerim, enn 
maladi ki souvan afekte bann revander anbilan.  
 
Tir dra lor li ti enn zafer senp; li ti zis bizen gonfle so 
lestoma e li ti pou tonbe par limem. Me apre, tou ti 
vinn pli difisil parski li ti vinn bien -bien larz. Dan 
lepase li ti pou servi  so de lebra ek lame pou soulev 
so lekor; me aster li ti ena zis enn ta ti lapat ki ti pe 
bat fol dan ler e ki li pa ti pe kapav kontrole. Si li ti 
ole kabos enn lapat, samem anpremie ti pou drese; 
ler li ti reysi kontrol enn, tou lezot ti pou fer seki zot  
anvi dan enn manier ki ti pe fer li dimal. "Sa pa 
kapav fer lor lili," Gregor ti panse, "alor, mo aret 
perdi letan".  
 
Premie kiksoz li ti anvi se fer so lamwatie lekor 
anba sorti lor lili me kouma zame li ti finn trouv sa 
parti so lekor la, li pa ti kapav  mazine kouma li ti 
ete; li ti koumadir sitan red ki pa ti kapav bouz li; li 
ti pe avanse dousman -dousman mem; finalman 
dan enn lelan kan brit -brit li ti sakouy so lekor ar 
enn extra gran lafors so lamwatie anba desann olie 
monte e ti tap for ar dosie anba ; douler atros ki li ti 
santi ti fer li konpran ki kikfwa sa parti so lekor la ti 
plis sansib.  
 
Sannkoutla li ti sey fer lamwatie so lekor lao sorti 
lor lili anpremie e ar boukou prekosion li ti tourn so 
latet sirlekote. Sa li ti reysi ase fasilman e malgre so 
larzer ek so pwa, lamas so lekor ti pe swiv direksion 
so latet. Me ler so latet ti andeor lili dan ler fre, li ti 
realize ki si li ti larg so lekor, peyna zes li ti pou bles 
so latet. Li ti blok so mouvman sek. Fale pa aster li 
nokawte limem; mey er res lor lili ki tom san 
konesans.  without being disturbed, to get dressed, and most of 
all to have his breakfast.  Only then would he consider 
what to do n ext, as he was well aware that he would 
not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by 
lying in bed.  He remembered that he had often felt a 
slight pain in bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, 
but that had always turned out to be pure imagination  
and he wondered how his imaginings would slowly 
resolve themselves today.  He did not have the 
slightest doubt that the change in his voice was 
nothing more than the first sign of a serious cold, 
which was an occupational hazard for travelling 
salesmen.  
It was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only 
had to blow himself up a little and they fell off by 
themselves.  But it became difficult after that, 
especially as he was so exceptionally broad.  He would 
have used his arms and his hands to push him self up; 
but instead of them he only had all those little legs 
continuously moving in different directions, and which 
he was moreover unable to control.  If he wanted to 
bend one of them, then that was the first one that 
would stretch itself out; and if he  finally managed to 
do what he wanted with that leg, all the others 
seemed to be set free and would move about 
painfully.  "This is something that can't be done in 
bed", Gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to 
do it".  
The first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part 
of his body out of the bed, but he had never seen this 
lower part, and could not imagine what it looked like; 
it turned out to be too hard to move; it went so 
slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he 
carelessly shoved hims elf forwards with all the force 
he could gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit 
hard against the lower bedpost, and learned from the 
burning pain he felt that the lower part of his body 
might well, at present, be the most sensitive.  
So then he tried to  get the top part of his body out of 
the bed first, carefully turning his head to the side.  
This he managed quite easily, and despite its breadth 
and its weight, the bulk of his body eventually 
followed slowly in the direction of the head.  But when 
he ha d at last got his head out of the bed and into the 
fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it 
would be a miracle if his head were not injured, so he 
became afraid to carry on pushing himself forward the 
same way.  And he could not knock hi mself out now at 
any price; better to stay in bed than lose 
consciousness.  
It took just as much effort to get back to where he had 
been earlier, but when he lay there sighing, and was 
once more watching his legs as they struggled against 
each other even h arder than before, if that was 
possible, he could think of no way of bringing peace 
and order to this chaos.  He told himself once more 
that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that 
24 
 Li ti bizen fer boukou zefor pou kapav retourn dan 
pozision ki li ti ete okoumansman, me ler li ti pe 
repran so souf, e li ti pe get so bann lapat bat fol, 
may -may ant zot pli fouka ki avan, si sa ti posib, li ti 
kas so  latet pou met enpe lord ek trankilite dan sa 
toufann la me abba. Li ti rapel limem ki li ti enn 
move zafer res lor lili e ki li ti bizen kapav liber 
limem nenport ki manier, e nenport ki pri ki bizen 
peye. Anmemtan li pa ti bliye fer limem rapel ki li ti 
bizen gard so kalm e pa fons dan nanye brit -brit 
kouma fouka. Normalman, dan bann sitiasion 
koumsa, li ti pou get dan direksion lafnet e explor 
lanvironnman pli lwen ki so lizie ti pou kapav 
amenn li, me pa pli lwen ki lot kote sime tou ti pe 
vinn flou ako z brouyar gramaten, e vi divan so lizie 
ti ni kapav konsol li, ni egey so lespri. "Finn deza 
set-er," li panse kan pandil sonn set -er, "set -er e 
brouyar ankor pe asiz lor lavil." Li ti res alonze lor lili 
ankor enn tipe letan, respir lantman koumadir enn 
silans -san-mouvman total ti pou fer tou revinn seki 
zot ti ete.  
 
Me li ti dir limem: "Avan set -er kenz sone, peyna 
zes, mo pou finn fini kit sa lili la. E ver sa ler la, 
kikenn depi biro pou finn fini vinn get mo nouvel 
parski biro li ouver avan set -er." E la li ti koumans 
organiz li pou lans so lekor net e enn sel kou andeor 
lili. Si li reysi tom andeor lili la e gard so latet ot, li ti 
kapav pables li. Kouma so ledo ti bien dir, bien 
posib ki li pa ti pou gagn dimal ler li ti pou tom lor 
karpet. So gran tr aka se tapaz ki li ti pou fer, e 
malgre laport ferme, ti pou sirman boulvers lezot, 
sipa plis. Me pa ti ena lot sime; ti bizen pran risk.  
 
Kan Gregor ti deza lamwatie andeor lili - nouvo 
metod la ti plis kouma enn badinaz ki veritab zefor; 
tou seki li ti'e na pou fer se roul gos, drwat - enn 
kou li ti reflesi ki kantite tousa ti pou pli fasil si 
kikenn ti vinn ed li. De dimoun for - li ti pe mazinn 
so papa ek so servant - ti pou plis ki ase; zot nek ti 
pou bizen pas zot lame anba so lakok torti, detas li 
ar lili, bes zot fardo ver sali, atann ar pasians ek 
swen ki li balans so lekor, sot lor sali kot, si tou pas 
bien, so bann ti lapat pou tini li. Eski vremem li ti 
bizen apel osekour memsi bann laport ferme akle? 
Malgre so sitiasion difisil, li pa ti kapav an pes enn 
sourir ler li ti pans tousa.  
 
Apre enn tibout letan, li ti ariv telman dan bor ki li ti the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it 
in wha tever way he could at whatever sacrifice.  At the 
same time, though, he did not forget to remind 
himself that calm consideration was much better than 
rushing to desperate conclusions.  At times like this he 
would direct his eyes to the window and look out as 
clearly as he could, but unfortunately, even the other 
side of the narrow street was enveloped in morning 
fog and the view had little confidence or cheer to offer 
him.  "Seven o'clock, already", he said to himself when 
the clock struck again, "seven o'c lock, and there's still 
a fog like this."  And he lay there quietly a while 
longer, breathing lightly as if he perhaps expected the 
total stillness to bring things back to their real and 
natural state.  
But then he said to himself: "Before it strikes quarte r 
past seven I'll definitely have to have got properly out 
of bed.  And by then somebody will have come round 
from work to ask what's happened to me as well, as 
they open up at work before seven o'clock."  And so 
he set himself to the task of swinging the entire length 
of his body out of the bed all at the same time.  If he 
succeeded in falling out of bed in this way and kept his 
head raised as he did so he could probably avoid 
injuring it.  His back seemed to be quite hard, and 
probably nothing would happe n to it falling onto the 
carpet.  His main concern was for the loud noise he 
was bound to make, and which even through all the 
doors would probably raise concern if not alarm.  But 
it was something that had to be risked.  
When Gregor was already sticking ha lf way out of the 
bed - the new method was more of a game than an 
effort, all he had to do was rock back and forth - it 
occurred to him how simple everything would be if 
somebody came to help him.  Two strong people - he 
had his father and the maid in mind  - would have been 
more than enough; they would only have to push their 
arms under the dome of his back, peel him away from 
the bed, bend down with the load and then be patient 
and careful as he swang over onto the floor, where, 
hopefully, the little legs would find a use.  Should he 
really call for help though, even apart from the fact 
that all the doors were locked?  Despite all the 
difficulty he was in, he could not suppress a smile at 
this thought.  
After a while he had already moved so far across that 
it would have been hard for him to keep his balance if 
he rocked too hard.  The time was now ten past seven 
and he would have to make a final decision very soon.   
Then there was a ring at the door of t he flat.  "That'll 
be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze 
very still, although his little legs only became all the 
more lively as they danced around.  For a moment 
everything remained quiet.  "They're not opening the 
door", Gregor said to him self, caught in some 
nonsensical hope.  But then of course, the maid's firm 
steps went to the door as ever and opened it.  Gregor 
25 
 pou bien difisil tini lekilib si li ti bouz tro for. Ti finn 
ariv set -er dis e bien -bien vit li ti pou bizen pran 
enn desizion final. Lerlamem sonet kot laport lantre 
flat ti sone. "Sirman enn koleg travay", li ti panse, e 
li ti bouz fix malgre ki so bann lapat ti pe dans fol 
otour so lekor. Pandan enn tibout letan silans ti 
chombo tou. "Zot pa pe ouver laport", Gregor ti pe 
dir limem ar boukou lespwar fouka net.  Normal, 
apre ti tann pa servant al ver laport e ouver li. 
Kouma li ti tann bann premie parol polites, Gregor 
ti kone kisannla sa - sef-komi limem. Kifer Gregor ti 
oblize travay pou enn konpagni kot zot tir lay lor 
tou ti detay? Eski tou travayer, san exse psion, ti 
bann vwayou; eski pa ti ena omwen enn ki ti sitan 
lwayal ek devwe ki so konsians ti pou tortir li 
telman ki li ti pou enkapab kit so lili si li pa ti okip 
travay biro omwen de zertan dan gramaten? Ti 
kapav avoy enn treyni vinn gete - si tousa ti 
vremem neseser. Eski sef -komi limem ti bizen vini? 
Eski zot ti bizen dir enn fami antie, pov inosan, ki 
sitiasion la ti telman delika ki ti bizen dispach enn 
sef-komi pou fer lanket? Sa ti boulvers li telman ki 
san panse li ti balans so lekor telman for ki  li ti sap 
lor lili. Ti ena enn son toufe me pa ti enn gran 
tapaz. Karpet la ti amorti sok la enpe e ledo Gregor 
ti plis soup ki li ti panse e tapaz so tonbe ti toufe e 
neglizab. Me li pa ti tini so latet lao ki ti tap for lor 
sali ler li ti tonbe. Tousa t i agas li e anplis douler ti 
pe pens li, li ti tourn so latet e frot li lor karpet.  
 
"Kiksoz finn tonbe ladan, sef -komi ti dir dan lasam 
agos. Gregor sey mazine si enn zafer kouma ti finn 
ariv li ti kapav ariv sef -komi la; bizen aksepte ki sa ti 
bien posib . Kouma enn repons sovaz, ti tann pa 
misie la dan so bot glase dan lasam akote. Dan 
lasam adrwat so ser ti pe mirmire pou enform li: 
"Gregor, sef -komi finn vini." "Wi, mo kone", Gregor 
ti dir limem me li pa ti oze lev so lavwa pou ki so ser 
tande.  
 
"Gregor ", so papa ti pe koze dan lasam agos, "Misie 
Komi Ansef finn vinn gete kifer to pa finn pran tren 
pli boner. Nou pa kone ki pou dir li. Detout fason se 
ar twa ki li anvi koze. Ouver laport mo garson. Mo 
sir li pa pou mayn dezord dan to lasam." Lerla sef -
komi ti dir "Bonzour Misie Samsa". "Li pa bien", so 
mama ti dir sef -komi la pandan ki so papa ti pe 
kontinie koze atraver laport. "Kwar mwa, li pa bien. 
Sinon li pa ti pou rat so tren. Sa piti la toultan nek only needed to hear the visitor's first words of 
greeting and he knew who it was - the chief clerk 
himself.  Why did Gregor ha ve to be the only one 
condemned to work for a company where they 
immediately became highly suspicious at the slightest 
shortcoming?  Were all employees, every one of them, 
louts, was there not one of them who was faithful and 
devoted who would go so mad wi th pangs of 
conscience that he couldn't get out of bed if he didn't 
spend at least a couple of hours in the morning on 
company business?  Was it really not enough to let 
one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming 
enquiries were even necessary - did the chief clerk 
have to come himself, and did they have to show the 
whole, innocent family that this was so suspicious that 
only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the 
wisdom to investigate it?  And more because these 
thoughts had made him upset than thr ough any 
proper decision, he swang himself with all his force 
out of the bed.   There was a loud thump, but it wasn't 
really a loud noise.  His fall was softened a little by the 
carpet, and Gregor's back was also more elastic than 
he had thought, which mad e the sound muffled and 
not too noticeable.  He had not held his head carefully 
enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in 
pain, he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet.   
"Something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk 
in the roo m on the left.  Gregor tried to imagine 
whether something of the sort that had happened to 
him today could ever happen to the chief clerk too; 
you had to concede that it was possible.  But as if in 
gruff reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm 
foots teps in his highly polished boots could now be 
heard in the adjoining room.  From the room on his 
right, Gregor's sister whispered to him to let him 
know: "Gregor, the chief clerk is here. "  "Yes, I know", 
said Gregor to himself; but without daring to rai se his 
voice loud enough for his sister to hear him.  
"Gregor", said his father now from the room to his 
left, "the chief clerk has come round and wants to 
know why you didn't leave on the early train.  We 
don't know what to say to him.  And anyway, he want s 
to speak to you personally.  So please open up this 
door.  I'm sure he'll be good enough to forgive the 
untidiness of your room."  Then the chief clerk called 
"Good morning, Mr. Samsa".  "He isn't well", said his 
mother to the chief clerk, while his fath er continued to 
speak through the door.  "He isn't well, please believe 
me.  Why else would Gregor have missed a train!  The 
lad only ever thinks about the business.  It nearly 
makes me cross the way he never goes out in the 
evenings; he's been in town for  a week now but stayed 
home every evening.  He sits with us in the kitchen 
and just reads the paper or studies train timetables.  
His idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw.  He's 
made a little frame, for instance, it only took him two 
or three eve nings, you'll be amazed how nice it is; it's 
26 
 pans so travay. Parfwa mo ankoler ar li parski zam e 
li sorti; li la depi enn semenn e touletanto li res 
lakaz, asiz ar nou dan lakaz, lir lagazet ou etidie 
taymteble tren. So obi se travay ar so sizo -fen. Li 
finn fer enn kad anbwa; ase vit, de, trwa lapremidi; 
zoli mo dir ou; li lor miray so lasam; ou pou  trouve 
ler li ouver so laport. Mo kontan ou la; nou, nou pa 
ti pou kapav fer Gregor ouver so laport; ala li teti la; 
mo sir li pa bien; gramaten li ti dir li korek, mwa mo 
pa kwar." "Enn timama mo vini", Gregor ti dir 
lantman, aplenn reflexion me li pa ti  bouze pou 
kapav tann tou bann mo dan konversasion ki ti pe 
deroule. "Sel explikasion posib, Madam Samsa", 
sef-komi la ti dir, "Mo zis espere li pa tro grav. Me 
mo bizen dir ki si enn dimoun dan nou biznes pa 
santi li tro bien, erezman ou malerezman, kouma  
ou'le, nou oblize sirmont nou endispozision parski 
biznes pas avan tou." "Eski Komi Ansef kapav rantre 
pou get twa?", so papa ti dimande avek ensistans e 
anmemtan li ti pe tap lor laport la for -for. "Non", 
Gregor ti dir. Dan lasam adrwat ti ena enn silans  
anbarasan; dan lasam adrwat so ser ti koumans 
plore.  
 
Kifer so ser pa ti al zwenn bannla? Kikfwa li ti fek 
leve e li pa ti prezantab. Be kifer li ti pe plore? Eski 
se parski li, Gregor, pa ti leve pou fer sef -komi 
rantre, parski li ti pou perdi so job e s i sa ti arive, 
patron Gregor ti pou tom lor so paran ar bann 
reklamasion ki li ti abitie fer? Pa neseser fatig latet 
ar bann zafer koumsa. Gregor ti touzour la e li pa ti 
pou abandonn so fami. Pou lemoman li ti lor karpet 
e seki ti kone dan ki douk li ti e te pa ti pou expek li 
al ouver laport pou fer sef -komi rantre. Sa li pa ti 
enn mankman grav, e ti bien fasil pou trouv enn 
exkiz pli tar; Gregor pa ti pou perdi so travay anplas 
akoz sa. Pou Gregor li ti pli rezonab fou li lape olie 
deranz li ar zot koze e k zot plore. Me bannla pa ti 
kone ki pe arive, zot ti pe trakase. Kapav konpran.  
 
Sef-komi ti lev so lavwa, "Misie Samsa", li ti dir, "ki 
pe arive? Ou ferm ou dan ou lasam; reponn par wi 
ek non, ou pe fer ou paran trakase pou nanye e ou 
pa pe - mo pe dir s a anpasan - fer seki ou travay 
dimann ou fer; enn veritab skandal. Mo pe koz ar 
ou onom ou paran ek ou patron e mo oblize 
dimann ou enn explikasion kler ek direk. Mo etone, 
extra etone. Mo ti toultan panse ki ou ti enn 
dimoun kalm ek rezonab e ki mo dekouv er? Ou hanging up in his room; you'll see it as soon as Gregor 
opens the door.  Anyway, I'm glad you're here; we 
wouldn't have been able to get Gregor to open the 
door by ourselves; he's so stubborn; and I'm sure he 
isn't well, he said this morning that he is, but he isn't."  
"I'll be there in a moment", said Gregor slowly and 
thoughtfully, but without moving so that he would not 
miss any word of the conversation.  "Well I can't think 
of any other way of explaining it, Mrs. Samsa", said the 
chief clerk, "I hope it's nothing serious.  But on the 
other hand, I must say that if we people in commerce 
ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or 
unfortunately as you like, we simply have to overcome 
it because of business considerations."  "Can the chief 
clerk come in to see you now then?", asked his father 
impatiently, knocking at the door again.  "No", said 
Gregor.  In the room on his right there followed a 
painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began 
to cry.    
So why did his sister not go and join the others?  She 
had probably only just got up and had not even begun 
to get dressed.  And why was she crying?  Was it 
because he had not got up, and had not let the chief 
clerk in, because he was in danger of losin g his job and 
if that happened his boss would once more pursue 
their parents with the same demands as before?  
There was no need to worry about things like that yet.  
Gregor was still there and had not the slightest 
intention of abandoning his family.  For  the time being 
he just lay there on the carpet, and no -one who knew 
the condition he was in would seriously have expected 
him to let the chief clerk in.  It was only a minor 
discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be 
found for it later on, it was not something for which 
Gregor could be sacked on the spot.  And it seemed to 
Gregor much more sensible to leave him now in peace 
instead of disturbing him with talking at him and 
crying.  But the others didn't know what was 
happening, they were worried, t hat would excuse 
their behaviour.   
The chief clerk now raised his voice, "Mr. Samsa", he 
called to him, "what is wrong?  You barricade yourself 
in your room, give us no more than yes or no for an 
answer, you are causing serious and unnecessary 
concern to your parents and you fail - and I mention 
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your 
business duties in a way that is quite unheard of.  I'm 
speaking here on behalf of your parents and of your 
employer, and really must request a clear and 
immediate explanation.  I am astonished, quite 
astonished.  I thought I knew you as a calm and 
sensible person, and now you suddenly seem to be 
showing off with peculiar whims.   This morning, your 
employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure 
to appear, i t's true - it had to do with the money that 
was recently entrusted to you - but I came near to 
giving him my word of honour that that could not be 
27 
 kaprisie. Zordi gramaten ou patron ti ensinie ki 
rezon kifer ou ti finn absan, kwar mwa, se parski ti 
donn ou enn som enportan pou garde, me mo ti 
pare pou fer serman ki ou pa sa kalite dimoun la. 
Me aster ki mo finn temwen ou antetman ridikil, 
mo p a anvi ditou defann ou. Mo kwar osi ki ou job li 
dan koutvan. Mo ti anvi dir ou tousa an prive me 
kouma ou anvi fer mwa perdi mo letan mo trouv 
normal ki mo met ou paran okouran. Resaman ou 
reset finn bien move; mo dakor ki li enn move 
moman pou fer bilan,  dakor; me Misie Samsa, li pa 
enn rezon pou ki biznes bat lamok; sa nou pa pou 
tolere".  
 
"Ekout mwa Misie", Gregor dir, - li ti sap lor kal e li 
ti bliye tou leres dan so eksitasion - atann mo pe 
ouver la. Mo pa tro bien, vertiz, mo pa ti pe kapav 
leve, mo  ankor lor lili. Me mo pe redrese. Bien drol 
seki kapav ariv kikenn enn kou antret. Pourtan yer 
swar mo ti foul korek, dimann mo paran, zot pli 
kone ki mwa, yer swar mo ti santi enn ti febles. 
Sirman zot ti remarke. Pa kone kifer mo pa ti les zot 
dan biro kone. Nou toultan kwar ki nou pou bien 
san bizen absan dan travay. Silvouple pa fer mo 
paran soufer! Ou bann akizasion zot pa repoz lor 
nanye; personn pa finn koz sa kalite koze la ar 
mwa. Kikfwa ou pa finn lir bann dernie kontra ki mo 
finn avoy biro. Mo p e pran tren wit -er, mo dir ou, 
sa ti repo anplis la finn redonn mwa lafors. Misie, 
pa neseser atann; mo pou ariv biro zis apre ou; 
rann mwa enn servis pas sa mesaz la nou patron e 
dir li mo fer li konpliman!"  
 
Pandan ki Gregor ti pe vomi sa bann mo la, san  
kone ki li ti pe dir, li ti ariv kot komod la - sa pa ti 
difisil avek lantrennman ki li ti fer lor lili - kot li ti 
sey dibout drwat. Li ti bien anvi ouver laport la; 
bien anvi les zot trouv li kouma li ete e koz ar sef -
komi; bann lezot ti pe telman ensis te e li ti bien 
anvi kone ki zot ti pou dir ler zot ti finn trouve ki li ti 
finn devini. Si zot ti gagn sok, lerla li pa ti pou 
responsabilite Gregor e li ti pou kapav al repoze. 
Me si toutfwa zot ti gard zot kalm, li ,Gregor, pa ti 
pou gagn drwa boulverse  e si li ti fer vit li ti pou 
kapav pran tren wit -er. Okoumansman ler li ti pe 
sey akros ar komod verni la, li ti pe glise, tonbe, me 
finalman li ti fer enn mouvman sek e li ti reysi 
dibout drwat; so lamwatie anba ti pe fermal me li ti 
desid pou pa pran ko nt. Lerla li ti les so lekor tom the right explanation.  But now that I see your 
incomprehensible stubbornness I no longer feel any 
wish whats oever to intercede on your behalf.  And nor 
is your position all that secure.  I had originally 
intended to say all this to you in private, but since you 
cause me to waste my time here for no good reason I 
don't see why your parents should not also learn o f it.  
Your turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; I 
grant you that it's not the time of year to do especially 
good business, we recognise that; but there simply is 
no time of year to do no business at all, Mr. Samsa, we 
cannot allow there to be."  
"But Sir", called Gregor, beside himself and forgetting 
all else in the excitement, "I'll open up immediately, 
just a moment.  I'm slightly unwell, an attack of 
dizziness, I haven't been able to get up.  I'm still in bed 
now.  I'm quite fresh again now, th ough.  I'm just 
getting out of bed.  Just a moment.  Be patient!  It's 
not quite as easy as I'd thought.  I'm quite alright now, 
though.  It's shocking, what can suddenly happen to a 
person!  I was quite alright last night, my parents know 
about it, perhap s better than me, I had a small 
symptom of it last night already.  They must have 
noticed it.  I don't know why I didn't let you know at 
work!  But you always think you can get over an illness 
without staying at home.  Please, don't make my 
parents suffer!   There's no basis for any of the 
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word 
to me about any of these things.  Maybe you haven't 
read the latest contracts I sent in.  I'll set off with the 
eight o'clock train, as well, these few hours of rest 
have given me strength.  You don't need to wait, sir; 
I'll be in the office soon after you, and please be so 
good as to tell that to the boss and recommend me to 
him!"   
And while Gregor gushed out these words, hardly 
knowing what he was saying, he made his w ay over to 
the chest of drawers - this was easily done, probably 
because of the practise he had already had in bed - 
where he now tried to get himself upright.  He really 
did want to open the door, really did want to let them 
see him and to speak with the chief clerk; the others 
were being so insistent, and he was curious to learn 
what they would say when they caught sight of him.  If 
they were shocked then it would no longer be 
Gregor's responsibility and he could rest.  If, however, 
they took everything c almly he would still have no 
reason to be upset, and if he hurried he really could be 
at the station for eight o'clock.  The first few times he 
tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he 
just slid down again, but he finally gave himself one 
last s wing and stood there upright; the lower part of 
his body was in serious pain but he no longer gave any 
attention to it.  Now he let himself fall against the back 
of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of it 
with his little legs.  By now he had als o calmed down, 
28 
 kont dosie enn sez ki ti pre kot li e ar so bann ti 
lapat li ti may for rebor sez la. Tousa ti ed li pou 
kalme limem e res trankil pou ki li ti kapav tann seki 
sef-komi ti pe dir.  
 
"Zot finn konpran kiksoz, zot?" sef -komi t i dimann 
paran Gregor, "mo espere li pa pe fer boufon ar 
nou". "Ayo Bondie!" so mama ti dir; li ti pe plore; 
"kikfwa li bien malad e nou nou pe minn so boyo. 
Grete! Grete!" li ti kriye for. "Wi 'Ma!" so ser ti 
reponn lot kote lasam la. Zot ti pe koze atrav er 
lasam Gregor. "Al sers enn dokter deswit. Gregor 
malad. Vit, vit amenn enn dokter. To ti tande ki 
manier li ti koze fekla?" "Vadire lavwa zanimo", sef -
komi ti dir avek enn kalm ki ti lekontrer isteri so 
mama. "Anna! Anna!" papa Gregor ti kriye depi 
koul war dan direksion lakwizinn, li ti bat lame pou 
atir latansion, "al sers enn serirye lor vites". De tifi 
la rebor zot zip ti balye sali ler zot ti sorti lor vites, 
al ver laport santral, ti ris li for pou ouver e ti al 
deor. Drol sa vites ki so ser ti met so lenz! Pa ti tann 
laport la referme; sirman zot ti finn bliye referm li; 
souvan dimoun fer sa kan enn zafer grav finn arive.  
 
Gregor so kote ti vinn bien kalm. Anbon, zot pa ti 
konpran kan li ti koze; me pou li, Gregor, koze la ti 
paret kler, pli kler ki  avan - kikfwa so zorey ti finn 
abitie ar so lavwa. Me zot ti realize ki ti ena enn 
zafer pa korek ar li; zot ti pe fer demars pou ede. 
Premie reaksion lor so sitiasion ti bien pozitif e sa ti 
fer li plezir. Li ti santi ki li ti pe retourn dan lemonn 
dimou n e li ti panse ki dokter ek serirye pou fer enn 
louvraz serye - mem si li pa ti kapav fer okenn 
diferans ant sa de la. Kouma nenport ki koze ki li ti 
pou koze ti pou enportan, pou fer so lavwa osi kler 
ki posib, li ti touse, me li ti fer atansion pa tous tro 
for parski dimoun ti kapav panse ki so touse pa ti 
paret ditou kouma touse dimoun e limem li pa ti 
tro sir si li ti kapav pas enn bon zizman. Letansa dan 
lot lasam tou ti vinn trankil. Kikfwa so paran ti 
otour latab, pe mirmire ar sef -komi ousa zot tou  zot 
zorey ti kole ar laport, pe sey ekoute seki pe pase.  
Dousman, Gregor, ar led sez la ti avans ver laport. 
Ler li ti ariv laba, li ti larg sez la pou al apiy lor 
laport, tini drwat ar led vantouz ki ti dan bout so 
lapat. Li ti repoz enpe pou repran so souf e lerla 
koumans sey tourn lakle la ar so labous. Me 
problem se ki li pa ti ena ledan normal - kouma li ti and kept quiet so that he could listen to what the chief 
clerk was saying.   
"Did you understand a word of all that?" the chief 
clerk asked his parents, "surely he's not trying to make 
fools of us".  "Oh, God!" called his mother, who was 
already in tears, "he could be seriously ill and we're 
making him suffer.  Grete! Grete!" she then cried.  
"Mother?" his sister called from the other side.  They 
communicated across Gregor's room.  "You'll have to 
go for the doctor straight away.  Gregor is i ll.  Quick, 
get the doctor.  Did you hear the way Gregor spoke 
just now?"  "That was the voice of an animal", said the 
chief clerk, with a calmness that was in contrast with 
his mother's screams.  "Anna! Anna!" his father called 
into the kitchen through th e entrance hall, clapping his 
hands, "get a locksmith here, now!"  And the two girls, 
their skirts swishing, immediately ran out through the 
hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they 
went.  How had his sister managed to get dressed so 
quickly ?  There was no sound of the door banging shut 
again; they must have left it open;  people often do in 
homes where something awful has happened.   
Gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.  So 
they couldn't understand his words any more, 
although they s eemed clear enough to him, clearer 
than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the 
sound.  They had realised, though, that there was 
something wrong with him, and were ready to help.  
The first response to his situation had been confident 
and wise, a nd that made him feel better.  He felt that 
he had been drawn back in among people, and from 
the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and 
surprising achievements - although he did not really 
distinguish one from the other.  Whatever was said 
next wou ld be crucial, so, in order to make his voice as 
clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking care to 
do this not too loudly as even this might well sound 
different from the way that a human coughs and he 
was no longer sure he could judge this for hi mself.  
Meanwhile, it had become very quiet in the next 
room.  Perhaps his parents were sat at the table 
whispering with the chief clerk, or perhaps they were 
all pressed against the door and listening.   
Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with 
the chair.  Once there he let go of it and threw himself 
onto the door, holding himself upright against it using 
the adhesive on the tips of his legs.  He rested there a 
little while to recover from the effort involved and 
then set himself to the task of t urning the key in the 
lock with his mouth.  He seemed, unfortunately, to 
have no proper teeth - how was he, then, to grasp the 
key? - but the lack of teeth was, of course, made up 
for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, he really was 
able to start the k ey turning, ignoring the fact that he 
must have been causing some kind of damage as a 
29 
 pou chombo lakle la? - pa ti ena ledan me so 
lamaswar ti for; ar so lamaswar li ti koumans tourn 
lakle la me li ti pe bles limem parski enn likid  maron 
ti pe koumans koule depi so labous, tom lor lakle la 
avan al koul lor sali. "Ekoute", sef -komi ti dir dan 
lasam lot kote, "li pe tourn lakle." Sa ti ankouraz 
Gregor enn ta; me zot tou ti bizen pe kriye ar lazwa, 
so papa ek so mama 'si: "Bravo Gregor ", zot ti bizen 
pe kriye, "manz ar li, fann ar serir la!" Akoz li ti 
panse ki zot tou ti pe swiv so zefor, li ti pez lakle la 
ar plis lafors san pran kont dimal ki li ti fer limem. 
Amizir lakle la ti pe tourne, li ti pe tourn otour serir 
la; li ti pe tini drwat ar so labous, anpandan ar lakle 
la ou pez li anba ar pwa so lekor. Enn kou tak! 
Gregor ti kone ki serir ti ouver e ki li ti kapav rilax e 
ler li ti pe regagn so souf li ti dir ar limem: "Rayt! 
Mo pa ti bizen serirye". Apre li ti poz so latet lor 
pwag ne e ouver laport la net.  
Akoz so manier ouver laport la, li ti bizen fini ouver 
net avan ki ti kapav trouv li. Dabor li ti bizen tourn 
lor batan ferme avek boukou swen si li pa ti ole tom 
pouf lor so ledo avan li rant dan lot lasam la. Li ti 
ankor pe refl esi kouma pou fer sa, kan li ti tann sef -
komi la larg enn "Aryooo" kouma enn ti labriz ki pe 
soufle. Gregor 'si ti trouv li - limem ti pli pre ar 
laport - lame lor labous pe kile koumadir enn lafors 
envizid, for e konstan ti pe ris li ver miray.  brown fluid came from his mouth, flowed over the key 
and dripped onto the floor.  "Listen", said the chief 
clerk in the next room, "he's turning the key."  Gregor 
was gre atly encouraged by this; but they all should 
have been calling to him, his father and his mother 
too: "Well done, Gregor", they should have cried, 
"keep at it, keep hold of the lock!"  And with the idea 
that they were all excitedly following his efforts, h e bit 
on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to 
the pain he was causing himself.  As the key turned 
round he turned around the lock with it, only holding 
himself upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key 
or pushed it down again with the whole weight of his 
body as needed.  The clear sound of the lock as it 
snapped back was Gregor's sign that he could break 
his concentration, and as he regained his breath he 
said to himself: "So, I didn't need the locksmith after 
all".  Then he lay his hea d on the handle of the door to 
open it completely.  
Because he had to open the door in this way, it was 
already wide open before he could be seen.  He had 
first to slowly turn himself around one of the double 
doors, and he had to do it very carefully if he  did not 
want to fall flat on his back before entering the room.  
He was still occupied with this difficult movement, 
unable to pay attention to anything else, when he 
heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud "Oh!", which 
sounded like the soughing of the wind.   Now he also 
saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand 
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating 
as if driven by a steady and invisible force.   
 
  
30 
 GEORGE ORWELL ANIMAL FARM  
Chapter X  
 
YEARS passed. The seasons came and went, the short 
animal lives fled by. A time came when there was no 
one who remembered the old days before the 
Rebellion, except Clo ver, Benjamin, Moses the raven, 
and a number of the pigs.   
 
Muriel was dead; Bluebell, Jessie, and Pincher were 
dead. Jones too was de ad-he had died in an 
inebriates' home in another part of the country. 
Snowball was forgotten. Boxer was forgotten, except 
by the few who had known him. Clover was an old 
stout mare now, stiff in the joints and with a 
tendency to rheumy eyes. She was two ye ars past the 
retiring age, but in fact no animal had ever actually 
retired. The talk of setting aside a corner of the 
pasture for superannuated animals had long since 
been dropped. Napoleon was now a mature boar of 
twenty -four stone. Squealer was so fat th at he could 
with difficulty see out of his eyes. Only old Benjamin 
was much the same as ever, except for being a little 
greyer about the muzzle, and, since Boxer's death, 
more morose and taciturn than ever.   
 
There were many more creatures on the farm now,  
though the increase was not so great as had been 
expected in earlier years. Many animals had been 
born to whom the Rebellion was only a dim tradition, 
passed on by word of mouth, and others had been 
bought who had never heard mention of such a thing 
befor e their arrival. The farm possessed three horses 
now besides Clover. They were fine upstanding 
beasts, willing workers and good comrades, but very 
stupid. None of them proved able to learn the 
alphabet beyond the letter B. They accepted 
everything that the y were told about the Rebellion 
and the principles of Animalism, especially from 
Clover, for whom they had an almost filial respect; 
but it was doubtful whether they understood very 
much of it.   
 
The farm was more prosperous now, and better 
organised: it h ad even been enlarged by two fields 
which had been bought from Mr. Pilkington. The 
windmill had been successfully completed at last, and 
the farm possessed a threshing machine and a hay 
elevator of its own, and various new buildings had 
been added to it. W hymper had bought himself a 
dogcart. The windmill, however, had not after all 
been used for generating electrical power. It was used 
for milling corn, and brought in a handsome money 
profit. The animals were hard at work building yet 
another windmill; when  that one was finished, so it 
was said, the dynamos would be installed. But the 
luxuries of which Snowball had once taught the GEORGE ORWE LL BAZ ZANIMO  
Sapit 10  
 
Lane ale, lane vini; sezon vini, sezon ale; bann 
zanimo ne, grandi, mor. Ar pasaz letan laplipar 
zanimo pa ti kone kouma lavi ti finn deroule avan 
Revolision exepte Tref, Benzamen, Korbo Moiz e 
detrwa koson.  
 
Miryel ti mor; Fler Mov , Jesi ek Lake Koupe ti fini 
mor. Jonns ti mor dan enn sant detox. Personn 
pa ti rapel Boulkoton; pa ti rapel Boxer 'si apart 
detrwa ki ti finn konn li. Tref ti vinn enn vie 
matant ki ti pe soufer rematis e so lizie ti pe 
toultan larme. Malgre so katorz an  li pa ti pran 
pansion. Anfet okenn zanimo pa ti konn retret. 
Lide pou rezerv enn parti patiraz pou zanimo 
trwaziemaz ti finn abandone depi lontan. 
Napoleon ti vinn enn mal obez; Tronpet ti telman 
gro ek gra ki li ti gagn difikilte ouver so lizie. Zis 
Benz amen ki ti res preske parey exepte ki ti ena 
enpe pwal blan lor so mizo. Depi lamor Boxer li ti 
enpe pli tris ek silansie.  
 
Popilasion laferm ti grandi me krwasans la pa ti 
osi gran ki ti kwar li ti pou ete avan. Boukou 
zanimo ki ti ne ti tann koze Revolis ion vagman 
me bann zanimo ki Baz Zanimo ti aste pa ti konn 
nanye lor la. Lor laferm, apart Tref, ti ena trwa 
seval. Zot ti bann zoli bebet, bon travayer ek bon 
kamarad me zot ti bann lakrem kouyon. Zot pa ti 
fouti depas alfabet 'B'. Zot ti gob tou seki ti pe 
rakont zot lor Revolision ek Zanimoism, sirtou 
kan Tref ti pe rakont zot. Zot ti kontan li kouma 
zanfan kontan zot mama. Me pa ti sir ki zot ti pe 
konpran gransoz.  
 
Laferm ti pli prosper e so manejment ti pli 
efisian. Ti anexe de karo ki ti aste ar Misi e 
Pilkingtonn. Eolienn ti anfonksion. Ti ena masinn 
depayaz, masinn pou sarye ek klas bann balo 
lerb; ti ena nouvo batiman. Triyanger ti pe gagn li 
bonn. Li ti pe vwayaz dan karyol. Eolienn pa ti 
servi pou prodwir elektrisite me pou kraz may. 
Sa ti enn akt ivite bien profitab. Bann zanimo ti pe 
31 
 animals to dream, the stalls with electric light and hot 
and cold water, and the three -day week, were no 
longer talked about. Nap oleon had denounced such 
ideas as contrary to the spirit of Animalism. The 
truest happiness, he said, lay in working hard and 
living frugally.   
 
Somehow it seemed as though the farm had grown 
richer without making the animals themselves any 
richer -except, of course, for the pigs and the dogs. 
Perhaps this was partly because there were so many 
pigs and so many dogs. It was not that these 
creatures did not work, after their fashion. There was, 
as Squealer was never tired of explaining, endless 
work in the sup ervision and organisation of the farm. 
Much of this work was of a kind that the other 
animals were too ignorant to understand. For 
example, Squealer told them that the pigs had to 
expend enormous labours every day upon mysterious 
things called "files," "re ports," "minutes," and 
"memoranda." These were large sheets of paper 
which had to be closely covered with writing, and as 
soon as they were so covered, they were burnt in the 
furnace. This was of the highest importance for the 
welfare of the farm, Squealer  said. But still, neither 
pigs nor dogs produced any food by their own labour; 
and there were very many of them, and their 
appetites were always good.   
 
As for the others, their life, so far as they knew, was 
as it had always been. They were generally hung ry, 
they slept on straw, they drank from the pool, they 
laboured in the fields; in winter they were troubled by 
the cold, and in summer by the flies. Sometimes the 
older ones among them racked their dim memories 
and tried to determine whether in the early days of 
the Rebellion, when Jones's expulsion was still recent, 
things had been better or worse than now. They 
could not remember. There was nothing with which 
they could compare their present lives: they had 
nothing to go upon except Squealer's lists of f igures, 
which invariably demonstrated that everything was 
getting better and better. The animals found the 
problem insoluble; in any case, they had little time for 
speculating on such things now. Only old Benjamin 
professed to remember every detail of his long life 
and to know that things never had been, nor ever 
could be much better or much worse -hunger, 
hardship, and disappointment being, so he said, the 
unalterable law of life.   
 
And yet the animals never gave up hope. More, they 
never lost, even for an instant, their sense of honour 
and privilege in being members of Animal Farm. They 
were still the only farm in the whole county -in all 
England! -owned and operated by animals. Not one of 
them, not even the youngest, not even the travay dir pou konstrir enn deziem eolienn. 
Sannfwala, ti dir zot, sa pou servi pou prodwir 
elektrisite avek enstalasion enn dinamo. Me 
bann ti lix ki Boulkoton ti mansione (lalimier ek 
sofaz dan stal, dilo so ek fre,  trwa zour travay par 
semenn) ti rant net dan arsiv bliye. Napoleon ti 
dir ki sa ti bann lide retrograd ki ti kont lespri 
Zanimoism. Pou li, veritab boner li ti dan travay 
dir e dan enn lavi senp.  
 
Lenpresion zeneral se ki laferm la ti pli dan bien 
san ki bann zanimo ti pli dan bien, apart, bien sir, 
koson ek lisien. Tousa parski kikfwa ti ena 
boukou plis koson ek lisien. Falepa kwar ki bann 
koson ek bann lisien pa ti pe travay. Dan zot prop 
fason zot ti pe fourni boukou zefor. Kouma 
Tronpet ti kontan dir, travay kontrol ek 
organizasion zame ti fini. Bann lezot zanimo pa ti 
pe konpran zot lenportans. Toulezour bann 
koson ti bizen travay lor bann dosie, rapor, minit 
ek memoranndom. Sa ti bann larz fey papie ki ti 
bizen ranpli ar lekritir. Kan zot ti plen net ti bizen 
bril zot e lerla rekoumanse. Sa li ti vital pou 
biennet laferm. Ti ena enn lot laverite. Ni koson, 
ni lisien pa ti pe prodwir zot prop manze. E ti ena 
boukou koson; e ti ena boukou lisien. E zot lapeti 
ti anbonn sante.  
 
Pou lezot zanimo, lavi ti p arey kouma avan. Zot 
vant ti pe toultan grogne; zot ti dormi lor lapay; 
zot ti bwar dilo basen; zot ti travay dan karo; kan 
fer fre zot ti pe tranble; kan fer so mous ti pe 
minn zot lavi. Parfwa bann vie zanimo ti pe sey 
fouy dan zot memwar som pou sey rap el si apre 
Revolision, kan zot ti fek expilse bann imen, lavi 
ti meyer ousa pir. Ti difisil pou dir. Zot pa ti rapel 
nanye ar ki zot ti kapav konpar zot lavi zordi. Sel 
referans ki zot ti ena se lalis sif ki Tronpet ti pe 
donn zot regilierman. Bann sif la ti pe toultan dir 
ki lavi aster ti meyer ki yer. Bann zanimo pa ti pe 
trouv lizour; tou manier zot pa ti ena boukou 
letan pou sey trouv lizour. Zis Benzamen ti 
pretann ki li ti rapel tou detay dan so long lavi e li 
ti kapav dir ki lavi pa ti kapav pli bon ousa pli 
move parski lafen, difikilte ek fristrasion zot bann 
32 
 newcomers who had been broug ht from farms ten or 
twenty miles away, ever ceased to marvel at that. 
And when they heard the gun booming and saw the 
green flag fluttering at the masthead, their hearts 
swelled with imperishable pride, and the talk turned 
always towards the old heroic da ys, the expulsion of 
Jones, the writing of the Seven Commandments, the 
great battles in which the human invaders had been 
defeated. None of the old dreams had been 
abandoned. The Republic of the Animals which Major 
had foretold, when the green fields of En gland should 
be untrodden by human feet, was still believed in. 
Some day it was coming: it might not be soon, it 
might not be with in the lifetime of any animal now 
living, but still it was coming. Even the tune of Beasts 
of England was perhaps hummed secr etly here and 
there: at any rate, it was a fact that every animal on 
the farm knew it, though no one would have dared to 
sing it aloud. It might be that their lives were hard 
and that not all of their hopes had been fulfilled; but 
they were conscious that they were not as other 
animals. If they went hungry, it was not from feeding 
tyrannical human beings; if they worked hard, at least 
they worked for themselves. No creature among 
them went upon two legs. No creature called any 
other creature "Master." All a nimals were equal.   
 
One day in early summer Squealer ordered the sheep 
to follow him, and led them out to a piece of waste 
ground at the other end of the farm, which had 
become overgrown with birch saplings. The sheep 
spent the whole day there browsing at  the leaves 
under Squealer's supervision. In the evening he 
returned to the farmhouse himself, but, as it was 
warm weather, told the sheep to stay where they 
were. It ended by their remaining there for a whole 
week, during which time the other animals saw 
nothing of them. Squealer was with them for the 
greater part of every day. He was, he said, teaching 
them to sing a new song, for which privacy was 
needed.   
It was just after the sheep had returned, on a 
pleasant evening when the animals had finished work 
and were making their way back to the farm 
buildings, that the terrified neighing of a horse 
sounded from the yard. Startled, the animals stopped 
in their tracks. It was Clover's voice. She neighed 
again, and all the animals broke into a gallop and 
rushed into the yard. Then they saw what Clover had 
seen.   
 
It was a pig walking on his hind legs.   
 
Yes, it was Squealer. A little awkwardly, as though not 
quite used to supporting his considerable bulk in that 
position, but with perfect balance, he was strollin g 
across the yard. And a moment later, out from the lalwa fixe par lanatir.  
 
Me bann zanimo pa ti abandonn lespwar. Plis 
enportan, zame zot ti bliye, mempa pou enn 
timama, ki li ti enn gran loner ek privilez viv lor 
Baz Zanimo ki ti sel laferm da n liniver kot zanimo 
ti propriyeter zot teritwar e ki zot ki ti pe diriz 
tou. Zot tou, zenn kouma vie, endizenn kouma 
zanimo enporte, ti fier zot stati spesial. E kan zot 
ti tann detonasion fizi, kan zot ti trouv zot 
pavyon flote dan lezer lot lemapavyon, zot leker 
ti gonfle ar lazwa e otomatikman zot ti pou koz 
bann gran moman eroik dan zot istwar – 
expilsion Jonns, redaksion Set Komannman, bann 
gran batay viktorye kont envazion bann imen. 
Bann vie rev ti ankor fre dan zot latet. Rev enn 
Repiblik Zanimo ko t ti pou efas tou tras imen, 
kouma Bonom Mazor ti imazine, ti res fre dan 
zot lespri. Enn zour pa enn zour li ti pou vini. Pa 
zordi, pa dime me li ti pou vini. Mem zot sante 
'Zanimo Nou Pei' pa ti disparet. Tanzantan ti ena 
zanimo ki ti pou mirmir sante la . Anverite bann 
zanimo ti konn sante la me zot ti per pou sant li 
for. Zot lavi ti dir, zot bann rev pa ti finn 
materyalize me zot ti konsian ki zot ti diferan ar 
lezot zanimo. Si ti mank manze se pa akoz zot ti 
bizen nouri lever bann imen tiranik; si zot ti bizen 
travay dir, omwen zot ti pe travay pou zotmem. 
Okenn zanimo parmi zot pa ti mars lor de lapat. 
Okenn zanimo pa ti apel enn lot zanimo 'Patron'. 
Tou zanimo ti egal.  
 
Enn zour dan koumansman lete, Tronpet ti donn 
lord bann mouton pou swiv li e li ti  amenn zot 
dan enn kwen abandone plen ar pie konde 
kouver ar fey tann. Pandan enn zourne zot ti 
manz fey sou kontrol Tronpet. Ler tanto ti vini, li 
ti retourn grannkaz tousel. Kouma ti fer bon 
deor, li ti dir bann mouton ki zot ti kapav pas 
lanwit anplenne r. Finalman zot ti res laba enn 
semenn net. Pandan sa semenn la okenn lezot 
zanimo pa ti kone ki zot ti pe deveni. Tronpet 
tousel ti pe pas boukou letan ar zot. Li ti dir ki li ti 
pe montre zot enn nouvo sante e sa ekzersis la ti 
dimann konsantrasion. Pa t i gagn drwa deranz 
33 
 door of the farmhouse came a long file of pigs, all 
walking on their hind legs. Some did it better than 
others, one or two were even a trifle unsteady and 
looked as though they would have liked the suppor t 
of a stick, but every one of them made his way right 
round the yard successfully. And finally there was a 
tremendous baying of dogs and a shrill crowing from 
the black cockerel, and out came Napoleon himself, 
majestically upright, casting haughty glances  from 
side to side, and with his dogs gambolling round him.   
 
He carried a whip in his trotter.   
 
There was a deadly silence. Amazed, terrified, 
huddling together, the animals watched the long line 
of pigs march slowly round the yard. It was as though 
the world had turned upside -down. Then there came 
a moment when the first shock had worn off and 
when, in spite of everything -in spite of their terror of 
the dogs, and of the habit, developed through long 
years, of never complaining, never criticising, no 
matt er what happened -they might have uttered some 
word of protest. But just at that moment, as though 
at a signal, all the sheep burst out into a tremendous 
bleating of -  
 
"Four legs good, two legs better! Four legs good, two 
legs better! Four legs good, two l egs better!"   
 
It went on for five minutes without stopping. And by 
the time the sheep had quieted down, the chance to 
utter any protest had passed, for the pigs had 
marched back into the farmhouse.   
 
Benjamin felt a nose nuzzling at his shoulder. He 
looke d round. It was Clover. Her old eyes looked 
dimmer than ever. Without saying anything, she 
tugged gently at his mane and led him round to the 
end of the big barn, where the Seven Commandments 
were written. For a minute or two they stood gazing 
at the tatte d wall with its white lettering.   
 
"My sight is failing," she said finally. "Even when I was 
young I could not have read what was written there. 
But it appears to me that that wall looks different. Are 
the Seven Commandments the same as they used to 
be, Be njamin?"   
 
For once Benjamin consented to break his rule, and 
he read out to her what was written on the wall. 
There was nothing there now except a single 
Commandment. It ran:   
 
ALL ANIMALS ARE EQUAL   
BUT SOME ANIMALS ARE MORE EQUAL THAN 
OTHERS   
After that  it did not seem strange when next day the zot. 
 
Mem lepok ki bann mouton ti retourne, enn 
tanto kan ti pe fer bon deor e ki bann zanimo ti 
fini zot lazourne travay e ti pe retourn ver bann 
batiman laferm, ti tann enn seval kriye ar 
lafreyer. Soke, bann zanimo ti arete pou kone ki 
ti pe arivi. Tref ki ti kriye. Li ti rekriye. Bann 
zanimo ti galoupe pou al gete ki ti pe arive. Lerla 
zot ti trouve seki ti fer Tref gagn sok.  
Enn koson ti pe mars lor so de lapat deryer.  
Ti Tronpet sa. So mouvman ti gos -gos parski li pa 
ti ena labitid  fer zis de lapat tini pwa lekor net. 
Me bizen rekonet ki li ti tini bien so lekilib ler li ti 
travers lakour. Enn timama apre, laport grannkaz 
ti ouver e enn trale koson ti sorti e zot tou ti pe 
mars lor zot de lapat deyer. Ena ti mars pli bien 
ki lezot; ti ena ennde ki ti golmal – andire zot ti 
bizen enn baton pou tini zot. Me finalman zot 
tou ti fer parkour la san tro problem. Finalman ti 
ena enn gran tapaz zape lisien e son egi sante 
enn kok e Napoleon, drwat kouma enn lerwa ar 
regar oten, ti sorti lor so de lapat. So bann 
bodigard -lisien ti pe sot -sote otour li.  
Li ti ena enn fwet dan so lapat divan.  
 
Ti ena enn silans lamor. Terifie, boulverse, soke, 
bann zanimo ti koste sere enn kont lot ler zot ti 
pe get enn long filwar koson lor de lapat deryer 
pe m ars kouma senater otour lakour. Pou bann 
zanimo ti koumadir lemonn ti vir anbalao. Kan 
lefe sok ti koumans febli e kan, malgre violans 
bann lisien, malgre ki zot ti finn abitie axepte 
innakseptab, zot ti pre pou koumans proteste, 
bann mouton ti larg nouvo sawal:  
“Kat lapat bon, de lapat meyer! Kat lapat bon, de 
lapat meyer! Kat lapat bon, de lapat meyer!”  
Pandan senk minit san arete zot ti ale mem. Ler 
zot ti aret zot tapaz, ti nepli posib proteste parski 
bann koson ti fini rant dan grannkaz.  
 
Benzamen ti s anti enn nene pe respire lor so 
zepol. Ler li ti tourn so latet, li ti trouv Tref. Tref 
so lizie ti vinn bien som. Ar douser li ti ris krinier 
Benzamen, amenn li kot miray langar kot ti ena 
34 
 pigs who were supervising the work of the farm all 
carried whips in their trotters. It did not seem strange 
to learn that the pigs had bought themselves a 
wireless set, were arranging to install a telephone, 
and h ad taken out subscriptions to John Bull, TitBits, 
and the Daily Mirror. It did not seem strange when 
Napoleon was seen strolling in the farmhouse garden 
with a pipe in his mouth -no, not even when the pigs 
took Mr. Jones's clothes out of the wardrobes and p ut 
them on, Napoleon himself appearing in a black coat, 
ratcatcher breeches, and leather leggings, while his 
favourite sow appeared in the watered silk dress 
which Mrs. Jones had been used to wear on Sundays.   
 
A week later, in the afternoon, a number of d ogcarts 
drove up to the farm. A deputation of neighbouring 
farmers had been invited to make a tour of 
inspection. They were shown all over the farm, and 
expressed great admiration for everything they saw, 
especially the windmill. The animals were weeding 
the turnip field. They worked diligently hardly raising 
their faces from the ground, and not knowing 
whether to be more frightened of the pigs or of the 
human visitors.   
 
That evening loud laughter and bursts of singing came 
from the farmhouse. And suddenly , at the sound of 
the mingled voices, the animals were stricken with 
curiosity. What could be happening in there, now that 
for the first time animals and human beings were 
meeting on terms of equality? With one accord they 
began to creep as quietly as poss ible into the 
farmhouse garden.   
 
At the gate they paused, half frightened to go on but 
Clover led the way in. They tiptoed up to the house, 
and such animals as were tall enough peered in at the 
dining -room window. There, round the long table, sat 
half a d ozen farmers and half a dozen of the more 
eminent pigs, Napoleon himself occupying the seat of 
honour at the head of the table. The pigs appeared 
completely at ease in their chairs The company had 
been enjoying a game of cards but had broken off for 
the mo ment, evidently in order to drink a toast. A 
large jug was circulating, and the mugs were being 
refilled with beer. No one noticed the wondering 
faces of the animals that gazed in at the window.   
 
Mr. Pilkington, of Foxwood, had stood up, his mug in 
his ha nd. In a moment, he said, he would ask the 
present company to drink a toast. But before doing 
so, there were a few words that he felt it incumbent 
upon him to say.   
 
It was a source of great satisfaction to him, he said -
and, he was sure, to all others pres ent-to feel that a 
long period of mistrust and misunderstanding had Set Komannman. Pandan enn minit zot ti get 
miray dekrepit ar so le kritir blan.  
“Mo nepli trouv bien,” Tref ti dir Benzamen. 
“Mem kan mo ti zenn mo pa ti kapav lir seki ti 
ekrir lor miray. Me mo gagn lenpresion ki lekritir 
finn sanze. Eski Set Komannman parey kouma 
avan?”  
 
Sannfwala Benzamen ti desid pou al kont so prop 
prensip. Li ti lir pou Tref seki ti ena lor miray. Ti 
ena enn sel Komannman. Tou lezot ti disparet. 
Komannman inik ti:  
TOU ZANIMO EGAL  
ME ENA DETRWA ZANIMO KI PLIS EGAL KI LEZOT  
 
Apre sa evennman la, li pa ti tro anormal ki 
lelandime, kan bann koson ti pe k ontrol travay, 
zot ti koumans sarye enn fwet dan zot lapat 
divan. Li pa ti anormal ki zot ti aste enn radio, ki 
zot ti fer enstal telefonn, ki zot ti abone ar 
diferan lagazet. Nanye pa ti drol mem kan 
Napoleon ti promne dan zarden grannkaz, enn 
pip dan lab ous; mem kan bann koson ti koumans 
met lenz Misie Jonns; mem kan Napoleon ti met 
palto, bretel ek bot ankwir; mem kan so 
konkibinn prefere ti met rob Dimans Madam 
Jonns.  
 
Enn semenn apre, enn tanto, ti ena detrwa 
karyol ki ti vinn dan Baz Zanimo. Ti ena vi ziter 
depi lezot laferm. Zot ti enpresione par seki zot ti 
pe dekouver, sirtou eolienn la. Bann zanimo ti pe 
aras move lerb dan karo rav. Zot ti konsantre lor 
zot travay. Zot pa ti mem lev latet pou gete seki 
ti pe pase. Anverite zot pa ti kone kisannla zo t ti 
bizen pli per: bann etranze ousa bann koson.  
Pli tar, ler ti finn fer nwar, ti ena tapaz riye, 
amize, sante dan grannkaz. Ler zot ti tann 
toutsort kalite lavwa melanze, bann zanimo ti 
anvi konn plis. Ki ti pe pase laba? Imen ek zanimo 
ti pe sosialize lor enn baz egalite. Zot tou 
anmemtan ti desid pou rant dan zarden 
grannkaz.  
 
Ler zot ti ariv kot geet, zot ti tike me Tref pa ti 
35 
 now come to an end. There had been a time -not that 
he, or any of the present company, had shared such 
sentiments -but there had been a time when the 
respected proprietors of Animal Farm had  been 
regarded, he would not say with hostility, but perhaps 
with a certain measure of misgiving, by their human 
neighbours. Unfortunate incidents had occurred, 
mistaken ideas had been current. It had been felt that 
the existence of a farm owned and operat ed by pigs 
was somehow abnormal and was liable to have an 
unsettling effect in the neighbourhood. Too many 
farmers had assumed, without due enquiry, that on 
such a farm a spirit of licence and indiscipline would 
prevail. They had been nervous about the eff ects 
upon their own animals, or even upon their human 
employees. But all such doubts were now dispelled. 
Today he and his friends had visited Animal Farm and 
inspected every inch of it with their own eyes, and 
what did they find? Not only the most up -to-date 
methods, but a discipline and an orderliness which 
should be an example to all farmers everywhere. He 
believed that he was right in saying that the lower 
animals on Animal Farm did more work and received 
less food than any animals in the county. Indeed,  he 
and his fellow -visitors today had observed many 
features which they intended to introduce on their 
own farms immediately.   
 
He would end his remarks, he said, by emphasising 
once again the friendly feelings that subsisted, and 
ought to subsist, between  Animal Farm and its 
neighbours. Between pigs and human beings there 
was not, and there need not be, any clash of interests 
whatever. Their struggles and their difficulties were 
one. Was not the labour problem the same 
everywhere? Here it became apparent t hat Mr. 
Pilkington was about to spring some carefully 
prepared witticism on the company, but for a 
moment he was too overcome by amusement to be 
able to utter it. After much choking, during which his 
various chins turned purple, he managed to get it out: 
"If you have your lower animals to contend with," he 
said, "we have our lower classes!" This bon mot set 
the table in a roar; and Mr. Pilkington once again 
congratulated the pigs on the low rations, the long 
working hours, and the general absence of pamperi ng 
which he had observed on Animal Farm.   
 
And now, he said finally, he would ask the company 
to rise to their feet and make certain that their 
glasses were full. "Gentlemen," concluded Mr. 
Pilkington, "gentlemen, I give you a toast: To the 
prosperity of A nimal Farm!"   
 
There was enthusiastic cheering and stamping of feet. 
Napoleon was so gratified that he left his place and 
came round the table to clink his mug against Mr. kile. Zot ti avanse lor pwent lipie e ti al pre ar 
lakaz la e bann zanimo ki ti pli ot ti kapav louk 
par lafnet salamanze. Oto ur gran latab ti ena sis 
imen ek sis koson VIP. Napoleon ti okip sez 
prensipal. Bann koson ti paret bien alez lor zot 
sez. Lakonpagni ti pe zwe kart e zot ti pran enn ti 
brek pou bwar enn lasante. Enn gran brok labier 
ti pe sirkile e bann ver ti pe ranpli.  Personn pa ti 
pran kont bann figir dan sok lor vit lafnet.  
Misie Pilkingtonn, propriyeter Bwarenar, ti 
dibout ar so ver dan so lame. Dan enn timama li 
ti pou envit tou dimoun prezan pou bwar enn 
lasante me avan li ti panse ki li ti so devwar dir 
detrwa mo . 
 
Li ti extra kontan – e li ti sir ki tou bann dimoun 
prezan ti pans parey kouma li – ki enn long 
peryod mefians ek malantandi ti pe al mor. Ti 
ena enn lepok – li pa ti kwar ki bann dimoun 
prezan ti pans koumsa – ti ena enn lepok kan 
bann onorab propriyet er Baz Zanimo ti 
konsidere, li pa pou dir, kouma ennmi, me 
kouma dimoun diferan ki zot pa ti tro konpran. Ti 
finn ena bann ensidan malere, ti finn ena bann 
fos konsepsion. Ena ti panse ki enn laferm dirize 
par bann koson ti drol, ti bizar; ti kapav amenn 
dezekilib dan vwazinaz. Boukou fermie, san fer 
okenn lanket, ti kwar ki dan Baz Zanimo ti ena 
dezord, endisiplinn, kao. Zot ti per ki sa ti kapav 
afekte zot zanimo ek zot anplwaye. Tousa ti finn 
disparet aster. Oblize tourn paz. Zordi zot ti finn 
vizit part ou, enspekte tou bann aktivite e li ti 
kapav dir ki zot tou ti enpresione par efisians, 
disiplinn ek lord. Bann lezot laferm ti bizen 
aprann ar Baz Zanimo. Bann zanimo basklas dan 
Baz Zanimo prodwir plis e konsom mwens ki 
bann lezot zanimo dan larezion. Li  ek so bann 
koleg fermie ti pou met anpratik lor zot laferm 
seki zot ti finn aprann zordi.  
 
Li ti dir ki li ti pou terminn so diskour ar nesesite 
devlop relasion kordial ant Baz Zanimo ek bann 
lezot laferm. Koson ek imen ti ena mem 
problem, mem difikilte. La li ti pare pou larg enn 
koze malen me kouma limem li ti pe gagn riye li 
36 
 Pilkington's before emptying it. When the cheering 
had died down, Napoleon, who had remained on his 
feet, intimated that he too had a few words to say.   
 
Like all of Napoleon's speeches, it was short and to 
the point. He too, he said, was happy that the period 
of misunderstanding was at an end. For a long time 
there had been rumours -circu lated, he had reason to 
think, by some malignant enemy -that there was 
something subversive and even revolutionary in the 
outlook of himself and his colleagues. They had been 
credited with attempting to stir up rebellion among 
the animals on neighbouring fa rms. Nothing could be 
further from the truth! Their sole wish, now and in 
the past, was to live at peace and in normal business 
relations with their neighbours. This farm which he 
had the honour to control, he added, was a co -
operative enterprise. The titl e-deeds, which were in 
his own possession, were owned by the pigs jointly.   
 
He did not believe, he said, that any of the old 
suspicions still lingered, but certain changes had been 
made recently in the routine of the farm which should 
have the effect of p romoting confidence stiff further. 
Hitherto the animals on the farm had had a rather 
foolish custom of addressing one another as 
"Comrade." This was to be suppressed. There had 
also been a very strange custom, whose origin was 
unknown, of marching every Su nday morning past a 
boar's skull which was nailed to a post in the garden. 
This, too, would be suppressed, and the skull had 
already been buried. His visitors might have observed, 
too, the green flag which flew from the masthead. If 
so, they would perhaps have noted that the white 
hoof and horn with which it had previously been 
marked had now been removed. It would be a plain 
green flag from now onwards.   
 
He had only one criticism, he said, to make of Mr. 
Pilkington's excellent and neighbourly speech. Mr. 
Pilkington had referred throughout to "Animal Farm." 
He could not of course know -for he, Napoleon, was 
only now for the first time announcing it -that the 
name "Animal Farm" had been abolished. 
Henceforward the farm was to be known as "The 
Manor Farm" -which , he believed, was its correct and 
original name.   
 
"Gentlemen," concluded Napoleon, "I will give you 
the same toast as before, but in a different form. Fill 
your glasses to the brim. Gentlemen, here is my toast: 
To the prosperity of The Manor Farm! "   
 
There was the same hearty cheering as before, and 
the mugs were emptied to the dregs. But as the 
animals outside gazed at the scene, it seemed to 
them that some strange thing was happening. What ti bizen tini -tini. So doub -manton ti vinn grena 
telman li ti pe toufe ar riye. Finalman li ti reysi 
larg so jok. Zot dan Baz Zanimo zot ti ena zanimo 
basklas; bann imen ti ena dimo un basklas. So 
bon mo ti provok enn explozion riye. Misie 
Pilkingtonn ti refelisit bann koson pou manier zot 
ti pe roul zot biznes: tigit manze, boukou travay, 
boukou profi.  
 
Alafen li ti dimann tou dimoun dibout, plen zot 
ver. “Mesie,” li ti dir, “nou lev  nou ver pou bwar 
lasante, prosperite Baz Zanimo.  
 
Ti ena aplodisman, felisitasion, hiphiphip -houra. 
Napoleon ti telman kontan ki li ti kit so plas, ti 
vinn kogn so ver ar ver Pilkingtonn e li ti devid li 
enn sel tre. Kan tapaz aplodisman ti koumans 
dimini e, Napoleon ti fer kone ki li ti anvi dir 
detrwa mo.  
 
Kouma tou so bann diskour li ti kourt ek direk. Li 
'si li ti kontan ki peryod malantandi ti depase. 
Pandan lontan ti ena rimer ki ti pe sirkile – 
sirman louvraz bann ennmi – ki li ek so bann 
koleg ti b ann revolisioner ki ti pe fer sibversion, ti 
pe rod ranvers pouvwar imen partou. Tousa ti 
toultan fos. Zot ti toultan anvi viv anpe ar zot 
vwazen e fer bann tranzaksion normal ek natirel. 
Laferm ki li ti pe dirize li ti enn antrepriz 
korperativ. Dapre bann  drwa propriyete, ki li ti 
gard ar li, tou bann koson ti propriyeter ansam.  
Mem si nepli ti ena soupson ousa dout, ti finn 
ena bann desizion ki ti pou amelior antant 
kordial. Bann zanimo ti nepli pou apel zot 
kamarad 'kamarad'; dan Dimans gramaten zot 
nepl i ti pou rann omaz tetdemor enn vie koson; 
krann la ti finn fini antere; korn ek sabo lor 
pavyon ver ti finn anleve; pavyon ini ti pli zoli.  
 
Ti ena enn sel pwen kot li ti pa dakor ar Misie 
Pilkingtonn ki, li ti bizen aksepte, ti fer enn 
diskour exelan ek amikal. Pa ti so fot parski li pa 
ti kapav kone. Baz Zanimo nepli ti ekziste; aster 
se Baz Jonns ki ti ekziste. Sa ki ti so vre nom.  
 
37 
 was it that had altered in the faces of the pigs? 
Clover's old dim eyes flitted from one face to another. 
Some of them had five chins, some had four, some 
had three. But what was it that seemed to be melting 
and changing? Then, the applause having come to an 
end, the company took up their cards and continued 
the game that had been interrupted, and the animals 
crept silently away.   
 
But they had not gone twenty yards when they 
stopped short. An uproar of voices was coming from 
the farmhouse. They rushed back and looked through 
the window again. Yes, a violent quarrel wa s in 
progress. There were shoutings, bangings on the 
table, sharp suspicious glances, furious denials. The 
source of the trouble appeared to be that Napoleon 
and Mr. Pilkington had each played an ace of spades 
simultaneously.   
 
Twelve voices were shouting in anger, and they were 
all alike. No question, now, what had happened to the 
faces of the pigs. The creatures outside looked from 
pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man 
again; but already it was impossible to say which was 
which.  “Mesie,” Napoleon ti dir, “ranpli zot ver e anou 
bwar lasante ek properite Baz Jonns!”  
Kouma talerla, ti ena mem jalsa; bann ver ti pe 
devide enn deryer lot.  
 
Me pou bann zanimo ki ti pe louke par lanet, enn 
zafer bien -bien drol ti pe arive. Bann figir koson 
ti pe sanze. Tref so lizie som ti flit lor enn figir 
pou al lor enn lot. Ena ti ena senk manton, kat 
manton, trwa man ton. Ena kiksoz ti pe fonn, ti 
pe sanze. Zis lerla aplodisman ti pe al dan tengn 
e lakonpagni ti retourn zwe kart. Bann zanimo 
deor ti glise trankilman, ale.  
 
Me zot pa ti gagn letan mars ven met kan zot ti 
tann enn tapaz enfernal. Zot ti aret sek. Tapaz l a 
ti sorti dan grannkaz. Lor vites zot ti retourn kot 
lafnet pou louke. Ti ena enn mari makanbo 
andan. Ti ena kriye, zoure, devir latab, akizasion, 
protestasion. Napoleon ek Pilkingtonn ti zwe 
lasdepik anmemtan.  
 
Douz lavwa firye ti pe kriye ar koler anmem tan. 
Zot ti resanble net. Pa zis figir koson ki ti sanze, 
figir imen 'si. Bann zanimo ti get figir koson, apre 
figir imen, apre figir koson, apre figir imen, apre 
figir koson. Pa ti ena okenn diferans.  
 
 
ACT 3 KING LEAR BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE  
 http://shakespeare.mit.edu/  
ACT III  
SCENE I . A heath.  
Storm still. Enter KENT and a Gentleman, meeting  
KENT  
Who's there, besides foul weather?  
Gentleman  
One minded like the weather, most unquietly.  
KENT  
I know you. Where's the king?  
Gentleman  
Contending with the fretful element:  
Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea,  
Or swell the curled water 'bove the main,  
That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,  
Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,  
Catch in their fury, and make nothing of;  
Strives in his little world of man to out -scorn  Tradiksion par Dev Virahsawmy  
AK 3 SENN 1  
Siklonn. Kent ek enn nob rant par diferan laport  
KENT  
Kisannla sa ki pe debat dan siklonn?  
NOB  
Enn lespri dan tourman siklonik.  
KENT  
Mo konn ou. Kot lerwa?  
NOB  
Pe fer fas kont lanatir desene:  
Dir rafal avoy later dan lamer,  
Gonfle lestoma vag ki nway later,  
Sanz ou efas lavi; ris so seve  
E divan aveg ar violans bitor  
38 
 The to -and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.  
This night, wherein the cub -drawn bear would couch,  
The lion and the belly -pinched wolf  
Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he run s, 
And bids what will take all.  
KENT  
But who is with him?  
Gentleman  
None but the fool; who labours to out -jest 
His heart -struck injuries.  
KENT  
Sir, I do know you;  
And dare, upon the warrant of my note,  
Commend a dear thing to you. There is division,  
Althou gh as yet the face of it be cover'd  
With mutual cunning, 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;  
Who have --as who have not, that their great stars  
Throned and set high? --servants, who seem no less,  
Which are to France the spies and speculations  
Intelligent of our stat e; what hath been seen,  
Either in snuffs and packings of the dukes,  
Or the hard rein which both of them have borne  
Against the old kind king; or something deeper,  
Whereof perchance these are but furnishings;  
But, true it is, from France there comes a power  
Into this scatter'd kingdom; who already,  
Wise in our negligence, have secret feet  
In some of our best ports, and are at point  
To show their open banner. Now to you:  
If on my credit you dare build so far  
To make your speed to Dover, you shall find  
Some th at will thank you, making just report  
Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow  
The king hath cause to plain.  
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding;  
And, from some knowledge and assurance, offer  
This office to you.  
Gentleman  
I will talk further with you.  
KENT  
No, do not.  
For confirmation that I am much more  
Than my out -wall, open this purse, and take  
What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia, -- 
As fear not but you shall, --show her this ring;  
And she will tell you who your fellow is  
That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!  
I will go seek the king.  
Gentleman  
Give me your hand: have you no more to say?  
KENT  
Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;  
That, when we have found the king, --in which your pain  
That way, I'll this, --he that first lights on him  
Holla the other.  
Exeunt severally  
SCENE II . Another part of the heath. Storm still.  Balye tou lor sime, met plat partou;  
So laraz entern mat laraz deor,  
Fer divan ek lapli nanyeditou.  
Dan lanwit koumsa bann bebet feros  
Bliye zot bezwen, kasiet dan lakav,  
Me lerwa li, san okenn protexion,  
Chalenj destrixion.  
KENT  
Kisannla ar li?  
NOB  
Zis Boufon ki pe sey fer li bliye  
So soufrans profon.  
KENT  
Akoz mo konn ou  
Les mo dir ou kixoz  bien enportan:  
Ant de zann lerwa dife pe flanbe  
Mem si zot pe sey touf laverite.  
Sakenn panse so kamwad finn gagn plis.  
Bann espion Franse zot bien okouran:  
Pei divize; lerwa dan tourman;  
Ena plis ankor. Gran larme Fransez  
Finn mobilize; ena eklerer  
Ki de za kot nou, pare pou axion.  
Ou ti pou ed nou si ou ti'al Dover  
E laba raport ar serten dimoun  
Kimanier isi lerwa pe soufer  
- Soufrans atros fer latet savire.  
Mo'si mo enn nob e mo mision nob.  
NOB  
Mo ti'le konn plis.  
KENT  
Pa perdi letan.  
Pa get laparans. Pran sa ti sak la;  
Ena enn bag ladan e kan ou zwenn  
Kordelia – pa per Sir, ou pou zwenn li - 
Montre li bag la e lerla li pou  
Dir ou mwa ki mwa. Ah, letan modi!  
Les mo'al rod lerwa.  
NOB  
Mo ser ou lame. Samem tou Misie?  
KENT  
Atann! Nou sorti sakenn so kote.  
Premie ki zwenn Lir, irle pou enform  
Lotla. Oke? Rayt! ( Zot sorti sakenn so kote ) 
 
AK 3 SENN 2  
Siklonn. Lir ek Boufon rantre  
 
LIR 
Soufle siklonn, soufle! Eklat lazou!  
Vini tronbdo, inond lemonn! Kraz tou!  
39 
 Enter KING LEAR and Fool  
KING LEAR  
Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!  
You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout  
Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks ! 
You sulphurous and thought -executing fires,  
Vaunt -couriers to oak -cleaving thunderbolts,  
Singe my white head! And thou, all -shaking thunder,  
Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world!  
Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,  
That make ingratefu l man!  
Fool  
O nuncle, court holy -water in a dry  
house is better than this rain -water out o' door.  
Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters' blessing:  
here's a night pities neither wise man nor fool.  
KING LEAR  
Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!  
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:  
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness;  
I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,  
You owe me no subscription: then let fall  
Your horrible pleasure: here I stand, your slave,  
A poor, infirm, weak, and  despised old man:  
But yet I call you servile ministers,  
That have with two pernicious daughters join'd  
Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head  
So old and white as this. O! O! 'tis foul!  
Fool  
He that has a house to put's head in has a good  
head -piece.  
The cod -piece that will house  
Before the head has any,  
The head and he shall louse;  
So beggars marry many.  
The man that makes his toe  
What he his heart should make  
Shall of a corn cry woe,  
And turn his sleep to wake.  
For there was never yet fair woman but she made  
mouths in a glass.  
KING LEAR  
No, I will be the pattern of all patience;  
I will say nothing.  
Enter KENT  
KENT  
Who's there?  
Fool  
Marry, here's grace and a cod -piece; that's a wise  
man and a fool.  
KENT  
Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night  
Love not such nights as these; the wrathful skies  
Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,  
And make them keep their caves: since I was man,  
Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,  
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never  Kaskad sort dan niaz nway tou konstrixion!  
Zekler k ras dife, tanpet elektrik  
Desir lesiel, bril pie, anflam lezer;  
Les lanfer vinn propriyeter later;  
Bril mo seve blan. Loraz ki kraz tou  
Met tou plat partou. Steriliz sperm  
Ek dizef; eliminn lakaz piti!  
Aret reprodir! Tro boukou engra!  
BOUFON  
Eh Tonton, mwa  mo bien kwar ki dilo beni dan 
sek li pli laswit ki lapli anplen -ner. Tonton, mo 
Tonton, dimann to tifi pardon. Seswar, bon 
kouma move pas dan pake.  
LIR 
Les vant destrixion grongne, grongne mem,  
Kras dife, vomi tronbdo. Zot zot pa  
Mo zanfan, ni mo disan. M o pa pou  
Repros zot. Mo pa pou dir zot engra;  
Zame mo finn donn zot nanye; gat zot;  
Zot pa dwa mwa nanye. Alor kraze!  
Plen vant! Soulbontan! Get mwa, povdemwa!  
Ki mo vo? Nanye. Me zot zot azan  
Ki travay ar Goneril ek Regann,  
De tifi saytann, e zot ed bannl a 
Pou kraz latet enn pov -pov vie bonom.  
Pa bon sa! Pese sa!  
BOUFON  
Seki ena enn twa pou kasiet so latet ena enn 
bon latet.  
Kan kok gagn pou li  
Avan latet gagn enn twa  
Latet pou nouri lipou  
E kok gagn pou li.  
Si ledwa lipie vinn pli enportan  
Ki valer leker,  lerla enn ti kor  
Anpes twa dormi.  
Malsans! Zoli fam souvan fer grimas dan laglas. 
(Kent rantre ) 
LIR 
Mo pou vinn pasians lor enn moniman.  
Mo pa pou koze.  
KENT  
Ena kikenn?  
BOUFON  
Enn gran dimoun ek enn toutouk!  
KENT  
Ayo Segner, ou ki la? Zanimo  
Ki lasas aswar kasiet dan so trou.  
Lesiel ankoler teroriz bebet  
Ki pourtan aswar kontan rod zot bout,  
Fors zot al kasiet. Depi mo rapel  
40 
 Remember to have hear d: man's nature cannot carry  
The affliction nor the fear.  
KING LEAR  
Let the great gods,  
That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,  
Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,  
That hast within thee undivulged crimes,  
Unwhipp'd of justice: hide the e, thou bloody hand;  
Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue  
That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,  
That under covert and convenient seeming  
Hast practised on man's life: close pent -up guilts,  
Rive your concealing continents, and cry  
These dr eadful summoners grace. I am a man  
More sinn'd against than sinning.  
KENT  
Alack, bare -headed!  
Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;  
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest:  
Repose you there; while I to this hard house -- 
More harder than the stones whereof 'tis raised;  
Which even but now, demanding after you,  
Denied me to come in --return, and force  
Their scanted courtesy.  
KING LEAR  
My wits begin to turn.  
Come on, my boy: how dost, my boy? art cold?  
I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my  fellow?  
The art of our necessities is strange,  
That can make vile things precious. Come,  
your hovel.  
Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart  
That's sorry yet for thee.  
Fool  
[Singing]  
He that has and a little tiny wit -- 
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain, -- 
Must make content with his fortunes fit,  
For the rain it raineth every day.  
KING LEAR  
True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.  
Exeunt KING LEAR and KENT  
Fool  
This is a brave night to cool a courtezan.  
I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:  
Whe n priests are more in word than matter;  
When brewers mar their malt with water;  
When nobles are their tailors' tutors;  
No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;  
When every case in law is right;  
No squire in debt, nor no poor knight;  
When slanders do not li ve in tongues;  
Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;  
When usurers tell their gold i' the field;  
And bawds and whores do churches build;  
Then shall the realm of Albion  
Come to great confusion:  Zame mo finn trouv lesiel anflame;  
Zame mo finn tann loraz kas zorey,  
Irlman desir ler, fer leker tranble.  
Pa posib tini!  
LIR 
Les bann gran bondie  
Ki finn lans ramdam lor nou latet frel  
May zot ennmi brit. Twa kriminel pi  
Ki trik lazistis, to ler finn vini.  
Kasiet asasen ki komet parzir;  
Twa ki deklar sen me viol to zanfan,  
To rengn finn fini; tranble sal malfra  
Ki anba soutann kasi et krim orib;  
Pese anba bol sorti dan to trou  
Pou reponn lapel zistisie bondie.  
Mwa mo plis viktim ki mwa mo peser.  
KENT  
San bone Segner? Mazeste laba  
Ena enn kabann kot nou pou kapav  
Gagn ti protexion kont violans siklonn.  
Ler ou repoze, mwa mo pou al kot  
Gloster e dimann zanfan leker ros  
Donn nou enn ti plas pou kasiet siklonn.  
LIR 
Mo latet kokom. Kimanier beta?  
To gagn fre, garson? Pe fer fre. Wi, wi!  
Kot sa kabann la? Kan dan douk, gonaz  
Vinn presie. Nou al rod sa kabann la.  
To kone, beta, mo bien sagre n twa.  
BOUFON  
(sante ) 
Kan latet pa kokom net,  
Divan soufle, lapli tonbe,  
Pa dir nou dan toufann net,  
Mem kan lapli la tonbe  
Do mama, lapli la tonbe.  
LIR 
Vremem sa! Nou'al dan kabann!  
 (Lir ek Kent sorti ) 
BOUFON  
Sa divan la kapav tengn laflam nenfomann.  
Les mo fer enn profesi avan mo ale.  
Kan pret koz enn ta me pa fer nanye,  
Kan letier plen bidon kot robine,  
Kan bann nob zot kwar zotmem dizayner,  
Kan sex ranplas relizion so valer,  
Dan rwayom Albion lerla  
Pou'ena enn ta tralala.  
Kan lazistis partou pe triyonfe,  
Personn peyna det, ni konn povrete,  
Bay-bay rimer, palab, difamasion,  
41 
 Then comes the time, who lives to see't,  
That going shall be used w ith feet.  
This prophecy Merlin shall make; for I live before his 
time.  
Exit 
SCENE III . Gloucester's castle.  
Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND  
GLOUCESTER  
Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural  
dealing. When I desire their leave that I might  
pity him, the y took from me the use of mine own  
house; charged me, on pain of their perpetual  
displeasure, neither to speak of him, entreat for  
him, nor any way sustain him.  
EDMUND  
Most savage and unnatural!  
GLOUCESTER  
Go to; say you nothing. There's a division betwixt  
the dukes; and a worse matter than that: I have  
received a letter this night; 'tis dangerous to be  
spoken; I have locked the letter in my closet:  
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged  
home; there's part of a power already footed: we  
must incl ine to the king. I will seek him, and  
privily relieve him: go you and maintain talk with  
the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived:  
if he ask for me. I am ill, and gone to bed.  
Though I die for it, as no less is threatened me,  
the king my old maste r must be relieved. There is  
some strange thing toward, Edmund; pray you, be 
careful.  
Exit 
EDMUND  
This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke  
Instantly know; and of that letter too:  
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me  
That which my father loses; n o less than all:  
The younger rises when the old doth fall.  
Exit 
SCENE IV . The heath. Before a hovel.  
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool  
KENT  
Here is the place, my lord; good my lord, enter:  
The tyranny of the open night's too rough  
For nature to endure.  
Storm  still 
KING LEAR  
Let me alone.  
KENT  
Good my lord, enter here.  
KING LEAR  
Wilt break my heart?  
KENT  
I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.  
KING LEAR  
Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm  
Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee;  Tou piker -poket finn al pran pansion;  
Kan kaser desid respekte lalwa,  
Prostitie ek makro ranz sivala,  
Lerla dimoun pou'aret mars lor latet.  
Pa traka, mo pou dimann Merlen, kan so tour 
vini, pa bliye redir zot sa.  
 (li sorti ) 
AK 3 SENN 3  
Gloster ek Edmon rantre  
 
GLOSTER  
Mo pa dakor, Edmon, manier zot pe tret sa vie 
bonom la. Ler mo dimann permision pou ed 
Lerwa Lir, zot expropriye mwa e donn lord ki 
personn pa gagn drwa ni pled pou li, ni ed li, ni 
mem mansionn so nom.  
EDMON  
Barbar, kont natir!  
GLOSTER  
Tourn paz. Pa koz sa! Ena konfli ant de Dik; ena 
nouvel ki pli pir. Mo fek resevwar enn let. 
Danzere koz sa. Mo'nn ferm li akle. Ena enn 
mouvman pou vanz Lerwa Lir. Enn larme finn 
mobilize. Bizen ed lerwa. Ankasiet mo pou ed li. 
Al koz -koz ar Dik Kornwarl pou ki li pa dekouver 
ki mwa mo pe fer. Si li rod mwa, dir li mo pa 
bien e ki mo pe dormi. Mem si bizen donn lavi, 
mwa mo pou ed mo lerwa. Sitiasion danzere 
Edmon. Fer atansion!  
 (li sorti ) 
EDMON  
(ar limem ) Mo pou dir Dik Kornwarl to traizon;  
E lor let la 'si. Lasans mo kote.  
Pou'ena rekonpans e mwa mo va gagn  
Seki lonbo pou perdi. Wi, wi, wi,  
Lazenes monte ler vieyes grene.  
 (li sorti ) 
 
AK 3 SENN 4  
Siklonn. Lir, Kent ek Boufon rantre  
KENT  
Isi mem sa. Segner, pa res deor.  
Divan voras pe aval tou. Antre,  
Al kasiet.  
LIR 
Les mwa.  
KENT  
Pa res dan siklonn.  
LIR 
Pe kas mo leker!  
KENT  
42 
 But w here the greater malady is fix'd,  
The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'ldst shun a bear;  
But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,  
Thou'ldst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the  
mind's free,  
The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind  
Doth from my senses tak e all feeling else  
Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!  
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand  
For lifting food to't? But I will punish home:  
No, I will weep no more. In such a night  
To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.  
In such a night as t his! O Regan, Goneril!  
Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all, -- 
O, that way madness lies; let me shun that;  
No more of that.  
KENT  
Good my lord, enter here.  
KING LEAR  
Prithee, go in thyself: seek thine own ease:  
This tempest will not give me leav e to ponder  
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.  
To the Fool  
In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty, -- 
Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.  
Fool goes in  
Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,  
That bide the pelting of this pitiless  storm,  
How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,  
Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you  
From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en  
Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp;  
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,  
That thou mayst shake  the superflux to them,  
And show the heavens more just.  
EDGAR  
[Within] Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!  
The Fool runs out from the hovel  
Fool  
Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit  
Help me, help me!  
KENT  
Give me thy hand. Who's there?  
Fool  
A spirit, a spirit: he says his name's poor Tom.  
KENT  
What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?  
Come forth.  
Enter EDGAR disguised as a mad man  
EDGAR  
Away! the foul fiend follows me!  
Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind.  
Hum! go to thy cold bed, and warm thee.  
KING LEAR  
Hast thou given all to thy two daughters?  
And art thou come to this?  
EDGAR  Les pou mwa kase.  Rant andan Segner!  
LIR 
Pou twa siklonn la  
Pli pir penitans; pou twa sirman vre;  
Me kan  gran soufrans pe tortir to nam  
Ti soufrans zwe mor. Normal nou evit  
Bebet feros me si enn presipis  
Divan nou lerla, san ezitasion,  
Nou manz ar bebet. Kan lespri anpe  
Lekor vinn frazil; siklonn dan lespri  
Finn paraliz net mo bann sansasion  
Apart douler la.  - Fay zanfan engra!  
Koumadir labous pe desir lame  
Ki pe nouri li. Pinision pou gran!  
Non, pa pou vers larm! Ferm mwa andeor  
Dan rafal mouye. Kraze! Pa per twa.  
Ferm mwa dan toufann! Regann, Goneril!  
Enn papa ki finn donn zot tou dibien!  
Stop! Sime foli! E vite piti.  
Sanz sapit!  
KENT  
Silvouple Segner, rantre.  
LIR 
Twa avan, piti! Okip to konfor.  
Siklonn mo kamwad, li anpes mwa pans  
Seki fer mwa plis soufer. Mo swiv twa.  
(ar Boufon ) 
Rantre twa, beta! - Pov pep touni net! - 
Rantre monwar. Les mo fer lapriyer  
Avan dormi.  
(Boufon sorti ) 
Pov, pov pep touni ki peple later,  
Ki sibir dominer lapli -divan  
Kouma zot pe fer? Latet san fetaz;  
Vant vid san manze, ar lenz kas -kase  
Kouma zot pe fer kan rafal rakle?  
Mo pa'nn okip zot. Bwar mexinn vantar;  
Met lekor touni pou ki  to konpran  
Seki pov, pov pep sibir e apre  
Partaz seki anplis e ed lesiel  
Donn plis lazistis.  
EDGAR  
(depi dan kabann )  
Dilo monte! Dilo monte! Pov Tom!  
(Boufon sorti depi dan kabann ) 
BOUFON  
Pa rantre Tonton! Ena nam isi. Osekour!  
KENT  
Donn to lame. Kisannl a sa?  
BOUFON  
Enn nam. Li dir li apel Pov Tom.  
43 
 Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul  
fiend hath led through fire and through flame, and  
through ford and whirlipool e'er bog and quagmir e; 
that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters  
in his pew; set ratsbane by his porridge; made film  
proud of heart, to ride on a bay trotting -horse over  
four -inched bridges, to course his own shadow for a  
traitor. Bless thy five wits! Tom's a -cold, --O, do  
de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,  
star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom some  
charity, whom the foul fiend vexes: there could I  
have him now, --and there, --and there again, and there.  
Storm still  
KING LEAR  
What, have his daughters brought  him to this pass?  
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?  
Fool  
Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had been all 
shamed.  
KING LEAR  
Now, all the plagues that in the pendulous air  
Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!  
KENT  
He hath  no daughters, sir.  
KING LEAR  
Death, traitor! nothing could have subdued nature  
To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.  
Is it the fashion, that discarded fathers  
Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?  
Judicious punishment! 'twas this flesh begot  
Those pelican daughters.  
EDGAR  
Pillicock sat on Pillicock -hill: 
Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!  
Fool  
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.  
EDGAR  
Take heed o' the foul fiend: obey thy parents;  
keep thy word justly; swear not; commit not with  
man' s sworn spouse; set not thy sweet heart on proud  
array. Tom's a -cold.  
KING LEAR  
What hast thou been?  
EDGAR  
A serving -man, proud in heart and mind; that curled  
my hair; wore gloves in my cap; served the lust of  
my mistress' heart, and did the act of darkness with  
her; swore as many oaths as I spake words, and  
broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that  
slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:  
wine loved I deeply, dice dearly: and in woman  
out-paramoured the Turk: false of heart, light  of 
ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth, fox in stealth,  
wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.  
Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of  
silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot  
out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pe n KENT  
Kisannla twa, laba lor lapay? Sorti!  
(Edgar rantre, degize kouma Pov Tom ) 
EDGAR  
Sove! Movezer mofinn mars ar mwa.  
Divan glase pe soufle dan raket.  
Fouf! Dodo baba, deor fer fre.  
LIR 
Ayaya! Li finn donn tou  so tifi; aster li touni.  
EDGAR  
Kisannla pans Pov Tom? Movezer mofinn finn 
trenn -trenn li dan dife, dan laflam, dan lapas, 
dan tourbiyon, dan labou, dan marekaz; finn 
met kouto anba lorye, lakord pandi kot so plas 
dan legliz, pwazon lera dan so lasoup; fer  li vinn 
vantar, mont dadak lor enn bourik pou lasas so 
prop lonbraz tret. Beni senk sans! Pov Tom 
gagn fre. Katakatakatakatakata! Bondie beni 
twa, anpes tornad sarye twa, lapes devor twa, 
enfexion pran twa! Ed pov Tom kan movezer 
mofinn arsel li. May li l a; ala li laba; may li laba; 
kot li? Ala li la!  
(siklonn kontinie bate ) 
LIR 
Pov jab! Get ki so tifi finn fer li!  
To pa'nn gard nanye; to finn donn zot tou?  
BOUFON  
Apart so kamni. Simon kees lor nou!  
LIR 
Fer ki lapes ki anpandan dan ler  
Pou pini pese, bril to de tifi.  
KENT  
Li peyna tifi Segner.  
LIR 
Non, non, non, zis so de tifi kapav  
Fer enn zom desann pli ba ki lisien.  
Nouvo lamod sa? Papa lor lapay  
Bizen sibir tortir ki transpers li.  
Lazistis korek! Pourtan mo laser  
Ki finn donn lavi de tifi vanpir.  
EDGAR  
Kounouk met paryaz ar toutouk.  
Galoupe baba! Hip, hip, hip, houra!  
BOUFON  
Movetan fer nou vinn toke, pagla.  
EDGAR  
Tansion movezer mofinn, ekout nou paran, 
parol done parol sakre, pa zoure, pa rod grenp 
lor madam marye ou vwazen, pa fer letalaz. 
Pov Tom gag n fre!  
LIR 
44 
 from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.  
Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind:  
Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.  
Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let him trot by.  
Storm still  
KING LEAR  
Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer  
with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies.  
Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou  
owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep  
no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! here's three on  
's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:  
unaccommoda ted man is no more but such a poor bare,  
forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!  
come unbutton here.  
Tearing off his clothes  
Fool  
Prithee, nuncle, be contented; 'tis a naughty night  
to swim in. Now a little fire in a wild field were  
like an old lecher's heart; a small spark, all the  
rest on's body cold. Look, here comes a walking fire.  
Enter GLOUCESTER, with a torch  
EDGAR  
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet: he begins  
at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives  
the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the  
hare -lip; mildews the white wheat, and hurts the  
poor creature of earth.  
S. Withold footed thrice the old;  
He met the night -mare, and her nine -fold;  
Bid her alight,  
And her troth plight,  
And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!  
KENT  
How fares your grace?  
KING LEAR  
What's he?  
KENT  
Who's there? What is't you seek?  
GLOUCESTER  
What are you there? Your names?  
EDGAR  
Poor Tom; that eats the swimming frog, the toad,  
the tadpole, the wall -newt and the water; that in  
the fury of his heart,  when the foul fiend rages,  
eats cow -dung for sallets; swallows the old rat and  
the ditch -dog; drinks the green mantle of the  
standing pool; who is whipped from tithing to  
tithing, and stock - punished, and imprisoned; who  
hath had three suits to his back, six shirts to his  
body, horse to ride, and weapon to wear;  
But mice and rats, and such small deer,  
Have been Tom's food for seven long year.  
Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin; peace, thou fiend!  
GLOUCESTER  
What, hath your grace no better company?  
EDGAR  Ki to ete twa?  
EDGAR  
Enn zouvriye vantar, fezer ki met bigoudi, ki 
kasiet kilot dan sapo, nek fer malis, fer vis ar so 
metres, fer serman dan vid, fongoyo ziska 
dormi, fongoyo kouma leve. Kontan bwar, 
zougader, kontan fam plis ki Sheik Harami – 
ipokrit, kontan pese, fer disan fane,  pares 
kouma koson, voler kouma renar, gourman 
kouma loulou, araze kouma lisien, predater 
kouma lion. Pa les grinsman soulie ousa frou -
frou laswa fer twa rant dan lak fam. Pa frekant 
loka, pa met lame dan kilot, pa sig n liv kaser; 
sirtou chalenj movezer mofinn.  
Divan glase dan raket pe kriye  
Facha, facha ala mo la!  
Ale do mo bourik, tik, tik, tik.  
(siklonn kontinie bate)  
LIR 
Preferab konfor enn tonbo, ki fer fas touni lapli 
ek divan siklonn. Eski dimoun zis enn lot 
zanimo? Li pa plis ki sa? To pa dwa lever so 
laswa; to pa dwa okenn zanimo so fourir; 
mouton so lalenn ousa sat so parfen. Get nou 
trwa! Nou sofistike me twa to pa enn sou plis ki 
zafer bazik la. Dimoun san artifis, to zis enn pov 
kreatir touni lor de lapat. F outlekan artifis! Ale 
bouton! Deboutone!  
(li desir so lenz, tir li ) 
BOUFON  
Ayo Tonton, pa fer sa! Move letan pou aprann 
naze. Enn ti fedkan dan dezer aswar li kouma 
enn ti choula -etensel dan bavant enn vie pitasie 
santener. Gete laba! Fanal sirpat.  
(Gloste r rantre, li pe sarye enn flanbo ) 
EDGAR  
Movezer mofinn sa! Limem 
langoutitasdanpiodenn. Atann kouvfe pou 
koumanse; marse mem ziska kok sante. Li donn 
katarak dan lizie; fer lizie tourdey; fer lalev 
traver; pouri rekolt; e fer ditor bann kreatir lor 
later.  
Paspas fer letour aswar;  
E ler li zwenn ar kosmar  
Donn li lord grate, ale - 
Fonn verminn, dir twa fane!  
KENT  
Korek mo Segner?  
LIR 
Kisannla sa?  
KENT  
45 
 The prince of darkness is a gentleman:  
Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.  
GLOUCESTER  
Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,  
That it doth hate what gets it.  
EDGAR  
Poor Tom's a -cold.  
GLOUCESTER  
Go in with me: my duty cannot suffer  
To obey in all your daughters' hard commands:  
Though their injunction be to bar my doors,  
And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you,  
Yet have I ventured to come seek you out,  
And bring you where both fire and food is ready.  
KING LEAR  
First let me talk with this philosop her. 
What is the cause of thunder?  
KENT  
Good my lord, take his offer; go into the house.  
KING LEAR  
I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.  
What is your study?  
EDGAR  
How to prevent the fiend, and to kill vermin.  
KING LEAR  
Let me ask you one word in private.  
KENT  
Importune him once more to go, my lord;  
His wits begin to unsettle.  
GLOUCESTER  
Canst thou blame him?  
Storm still  
His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!  
He said it would be thus, poor banish'd man!  
Thou say'st the king grows mad; I' ll tell thee, friend,  
I am almost mad myself: I had a son,  
Now outlaw'd from my blood; he sought my life,  
But lately, very late: I loved him, friend;  
No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,  
The grief hath crazed my wits. What a night's this!  
I do bes eech your grace, -- 
KING LEAR  
O, cry your mercy, sir.  
Noble philosopher, your company.  
EDGAR  
Tom's a -cold.  
GLOUCESTER  
In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.  
KING LEAR  
Come let's in all.  
KENT  
This way, my lord.  
KING LEAR  
With him;  
I will keep still with my philosopher.  
KENT  
Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.  (ar Gloster ) Kisannla sa? Ki ou'le?  
GLOSTER  
Eh laba, ki zot ete? Zot nom?  
EDGAR  
Pov Tom ki manz krapo, grenouy, dizef krapo, 
geko, kamaleon; kan movezer mofinn teroriz so 
leker anfoli firye, li manz kaka -vas olie salad, 
devor lera ek lisien mor, bwar dilo pouri; ki 
gagn kout fwet, atas ar pie, met dan prizon; ki 
lontan -lontan ti enn bon serviter bien trete,  
Ti ena so prop seval ek lepe  
Me depi set an manz lera miske.  
Tansion, tansion! Kouse Lagign! Kouse Malang!  
GLOSTER  
Mazeste, frekantasion sa?  
EDGAR  
Titalber ti enn Gran Misie. Limem Modo, Moda, 
Modou!  
GLOSTER  
Nou prop zanfan finn vinn telman move  
Ki zot ay  aster seki finn fer zot.  
EDGAR  
Pov Tom gagn fre!  
GLOSTER  
Vinn ar mwa Segner! Enposib ekout  
Bann lord kont natir ki ou de tifi  
Pe donn nou. Zot finn dir mwa bliye ou;  
Met bar dan laport; les siklonn feros  
Desir -desir ou. Pa kapav Segner!  
Swiv mwa, vinn ar mwa kot ena konfor.  
LIR 
Dabor, les mo konsilte mo sadou.  
(ar Edgar ) Dir mwa kifer ena loraz?  
KENT  
Segner,  Axepte so lof; nou'al kasiet andan.  
LIR 
Mo bizen koz ar sa gran Swami la.  
(ar Edgar ) Ki ou spesialite?  
EDGAR  
Repous movezer e touy bann verminn.  
LIR 
Enn kestion personel.  
(Lir ek Edgar koz an prive ) 
KENT  
Segner, koz ar li. Dir li nou'al kasiet.  
So lespri pe glise.  
GLOSTER  
Eski to trouv drol?  
(siklonn kontinie bate ) 
So zanfan pe rod avoy li manze.  
Kent ti'ena rezon. Pov jab la! Kot li?  
46 
 GLOUCESTER  
Take him you on.  
KENT  
Sirrah, come on; go along with us.  
KING LEAR  
Come, good Athenian.  
GLOUCESTER  
No words, no words: hush.  
EDGAR  
Child Rowland to the dark tower  came,  
His word was still, --Fie, foh, and fum,  
I smell the blood of a British man.  
Exeunt  
SCENE V . Gloucester's castle.  
Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND  
CORNWALL  
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.  
EDMUND  
How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature th us 
gives way to loyalty, something fears me to think  
of. 
CORNWALL  
I now perceive, it was not altogether your  
brother's evil disposition made him seek his death;  
but a provoking merit, set a -work by a reprovable  
badness in himself.  
EDMUND  
How malicious is m y fortune, that I must repent to  
be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which  
approves him an intelligent party to the advantages  
of France: O heavens! that this treason were not,  
or not I the detector!  
CORNWALL  
Come with me to the duchess.  
EDMUND  
If the  matter of this paper be certain, you have  
mighty business in hand.  
CORNWALL  
True or false, it hath made thee earl of  
Gloucester. Seek out where thy father is, that he  
may be ready for our apprehension.  
EDMUND  
[Aside] If I find him comforting the king, it will 
stuff his suspicion more fully. --I will persevere in  
my course of loyalty, though the conflict be sore  
between that and my blood.  
CORNWALL  
I will lay trust upon thee; and thou shalt find a  
dearer father in my love.  
Exeunt  
SCENE VI. A chamber in a farm house adjoining the 
castle.  
Enter GLOUCESTER, KING LEAR, KENT, Fool, and EDGAR  
GLOUCESTER  
Here is better than the open air; take it  
thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what  
addition I can: I will not be long from you.  To pe dir lespri  lerwa pe glise.  
Be les mo dir twa, pou mwa'si parey.  
Mo ti'ena mo garson – dezerite - 
Li ti rod touy mwa. Fekfekla! Fekla!  
Mo ti kontan li, mo dir twa, kouma  
Zame papa finn kontan so zanfan.  
Mo lespri finn tas lor resif douler.  
Get sa letan la! Segner swi v mwa ...  
LIR 
Sori Sir!  
(ar Edgar ) Nob Saz, les mo mars ar ou!  
EDGAR  
Tom tranble!  
GLOSTER  
Ale monwar. Rant dan depandans. Tro fre deor.  
LIR 
Tou dimoun rantre!  
KENT  
Apre ou!  
LIR 
Ar li!  
Mo'le res ansam ar mo filozof.  
KENT  
Ed li Segner. Les lotla 'si rantre.  
GLOSTER  
Fer li rantre.  
KENT  
Misie, vini. Vinn ar nou.  
LIR 
Vini maha atma!  
GLOSTER  
Shououout! Bes lavwa.  
EDGAR  
Ti-Prens kot latour modi;  
Li sant for -for 'doremi'  
Disan imen santi pi.  
(zot sorti ) 
AK 3 SENN 5  
Kornwarl ek Edmon rantre  
KORNWARL  
Mo pou vanze av an mo kit sa lakaz la.  
EDMON  
Mo bizen rekonet, Segner, ki mo per ki dimoun 
pou dir ki mo finn abandonn mo papa pou 
soutenir lakouronn.  
KORNWARL  
Aster mo realize ki ou frer pa antor; lemal dan 
ou papa finn fors li pran sa sime la.  
EDMON  
Kifer lesiel pini mwa? Pourtan mo pe fer mo 
devwar. Ala let ki montre ki li mars ar lerwa 
47 
 KENT  
All the power of his wi ts have given way to his  
impatience: the gods reward your kindness!  
Exit GLOUCESTER  
EDGAR  
Frateretto calls me; and tells me  
Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness.  
Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.  
Fool  
Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman  be a  
gentleman or a yeoman?  
KING LEAR  
A king, a king!  
Fool  
No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son;  
for he's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman  
before him.  
KING LEAR  
To have a thousand with red burning spits  
Come hissing in upon 'em, -- 
EDGAR  
The foul fiend bites my back.  
Fool  
He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a  
horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.  
KING LEAR  
It shall be done; I will arraign them straight.  
To EDGAR  
Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer;  
To the  Fool  
Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes!  
EDGAR  
Look, where he stands and glares!  
Wantest thou eyes at trial, madam?  
Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me, -- 
Fool  
Her boat hath a leak,  
And she must not speak  
Why she dares not come over to thee.  
EDGAR  
The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a  
nightingale. Hopdance cries in Tom's belly for two  
white herring. Croak not, black angel; I have no  
food for thee.  
KENT  
How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:  
Will you lie down and rest upon the cushi ons?  
KING LEAR  
I'll see their trial first. Bring in the evidence.  
To EDGAR  
Thou robed man of justice, take thy place;  
To the Fool  
And thou, his yoke -fellow of equity,  
Bench by his side:  
To KENT  
you are o' the commission,  
Sit you too.  Lafrans kont so pei. Ayo bondie, kifer mwa ki ti 
bizen dekouver traizon mo papa!  
KORNWARL  
Vinn ar mwa, nou al get Dises Kornwarl.  
EDMON  
Si let la koz vre, ou ena enn gran louvraz pou 
fer. 
KORNWARL  
Vre ou fos, to finn vinn Erl Gloster. Al gete kot 
to papa ete pou nou aret li.  
EDMON  
(ar limem ) Si mo trouv li ler li pe ed Lir, sa pou 
plis korek pou mwa. ( for) Mem ena konfli ant 
mo devwar ek mo santiman, mo devwar, mo 
lwayote pou lakouronn,  pas avan.  
KORNWARL  
Mo finn met mo konfians dan twa. Fer 
koumadir to finn gagn enn papa ki kontan twa. 
(zot sorti ) 
AK 3 SENN 6  
Kent , Gloster ,Lerwa Lir, Boufon ek Edgar rantre  
GLOSTER  
Preferab isi ki anplen -ner. Axepte mo ospitalite. 
Mo al gete ki mo kapav fer ankor pou zot. Mo 
pa pou tarde.  (li sorti)  
BOUFON  
Dir mwa enn kou, enn pagla li enn misie ousa 
enn bachara?  
LIR 
Enn lerwa beta, enn lerwa.  
BOUFON  
Non, zame! Li enn bourrbak, enn bachara. Enn 
bachara fer so garson vinn enn misie; enn 
bachara pagla apel so garson misie.  
LIR 
Mil milie fles dife pers zot kadav.  
EDGAR  
Movezer mofinn pe mord mo deryer.  
BOUFON  
Fode latet pa bon pou kwar promes bolom 
loulou, fer konfians seval fou, axepte lamour ti -
garson, ou kwar dan serman fam divers.  
LIR 
Wi, mo pourswiv zot.  
(ar Edgar)  Asiz ou la, venerab Sefziz.  
(ar Boufon ) Twa aseser, asiz isi. Non, zot non, 
femel -tazar - 
EDGAR  
Get lizie movezer laba. Movezer fer ziedou ar 
ou madam. ( li sante ) 
Besi mo koko, vinn sof mwa, gate.  
48 
 EDGAR  
Let us deal just ly. 
Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?  
Thy sheep be in the corn;  
And for one blast of thy minikin mouth,  
Thy sheep shall take no harm.  
Pur! the cat is gray.  
KING LEAR  
Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my  
oath before this honourable assembl y, she kicked the  
poor king her father.  
Fool  
Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?  
KING LEAR  
She cannot deny it.  
Fool  
Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint -stool.  
KING LEAR  
And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim  
What store her heart is made  on. Stop her there!  
Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place!  
False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape?  
EDGAR  
Bless thy five wits!  
KENT  
O pity! Sir, where is the patience now,  
That thou so oft have boasted to retain?  
EDGAR  
[Aside] My tears beg in to take his part so much,  
They'll mar my counterfeiting.  
KING LEAR  
The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and  
Sweet -heart, see, they bark at me.  
EDGAR  
Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!  
Be thy mouth or black or white,  
Tooth that poisons if it bite;  
Mastiff, grey -hound, mongrel grim,  
Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,  
Or bobtail tike or trundle -tail, 
Tom will make them weep and wail:  
For, with throwing thus my head,  
Dogs leap the hatch, and all are fled.  
Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to w akes and  
fairs and market -towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.  
KING LEAR  
Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds  
about her heart. Is there any cause in nature that  
makes these hard hearts?  
To EDGAR  
You, sir, I entertain for one of my hundred; only I  
do not like the fashion of your garments: you will  
say they are Persian attire: but let them be changed.  
KENT  
Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.  
KING LEAR  
Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains:  BOUFON  
(li'si sante ) Pa kapav vini; so bato kou le. 
Fam koule loyo, fam koule!  
EDGAR  
Movezer mofinn ant Pov Tom ar lavwa rosignol. 
Tripkorde dan vant Tom rod pwason fre. Aret 
grogne anzlamor. Peyna chawchaw pou twa.  
KENT  
Sir, repoz ou. Ou paret fatige.  
Larg ou lekor lor sa bann kousen la.  
LIR 
Avan, zot prose. Amenn temwayaz  
(ar Edgar ) Venerab Sefziz, asiz dan ou plas.  
(ar Boufon ) Ou, aseser enteg, asiz kot li.  
(ar Kent ) Ofisie tribinal, ou'si pran ou plas.  
 
EDGAR  
Fode pa fane!  
Berze, berze aret dormi  
To troupo pe manz dan karo;  
Servi laflit fer zot vini.  
Sino, tansion bel -bel loyo.  
Miaw, miaw! Sat nwar lor baz.  
LIR 
Pourswiv sannla premie. Li'apel Goneril. Li ti 
koutpie so papa, pov Lerwa Lir.  
BOUFON  
Madam, eski ou apel Goneril?  
LIR 
Pa les li koz manti.  
BOUFON  
Sori madam, mo ti kwar ou enn touk . 
LIR 
Ala de ziem la. So figir traver  
Montre bien so santiman kabose.  
Anpes li sove! Koripsion partou!  
Lazistis foser finn les li sape.  
EDGAR  
Beni so lespri!  
KENT  
Mo Segner, kot ou pasians proverbial?  
EDGAR  
(ar limem ) 
Lasagren chom mwa par lagorz anpes  
Mwa zwe rol.  
LIR 
Mo'nn fini net! Ti toutou zap ar mwa.  
EDGAR  
Tom pou fann ar zot. Kouse toutou! Kouse!  
Kanmem to lagel blan ou nwar,  
Kanmem to ledan ena pwazon,  
49 
 so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning . So, so, so.  
Fool  
And I'll go to bed at noon.  
Re-enter GLOUCESTER  
GLOUCESTER  
Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?  
KENT  
Here, sir; but trouble him not, his wits are gone.  
GLOUCESTER  
Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;  
I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him:  
There is a litter ready; lay him in 't,  
And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet  
Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:  
If thou shouldst dally half an hour, his life,  
With thine, and all that offe r to defend him,  
Stand in assured loss: take up, take up;  
And follow me, that will to some provision  
Give thee quick conduct.  
KENT  
Oppressed nature sleeps:  
This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,  
Which, if convenience will not allow,  
Stand in ha rd cure.  
To the Fool  
Come, help to bear thy master;  
Thou must not stay behind.  
GLOUCESTER  
Come, come, away.  
Exeunt all but EDGAR  
EDGAR  
When we our betters see bearing our woes,  
We scarcely think our miseries our foes.  
Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,  
Leaving free things and happy shows behind:  
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,  
When grief hath mates, and bearing fellowship.  
How light and portable my pain seems now,  
When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,  
He childed as I f ather'd! Tom, away!  
Mark the high noises; and thyself bewray,  
When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,  
In thy just proof, repeals and reconciles thee.  
What will hap more to -night, safe 'scape the king!  
Lurk, lurk.  
Exit 
SCENE VII . Gloucester's castle.  
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GONERIL, EDMUND, and 
Servants  
CORNWALL  
Post speedily to my lord your husband; show him  
this letter: the army of France is landed. Seek  
out the villain Gloucester.  
Exeunt some of the Servants  
REGAN  
Hang him instantly.  
GONERIL  Kanmem sienderas ou roke,  
Kanmem long lake, lake koupe,  
Tom pou fer twa irle, kriye,  
Sot baraz, sove. Katakatakata!  
Pov Tom so pos kanze. Chalo, nou'al veye 
mortier, fennsifer, lafwar, bazar kot kapav plen 
pos.  
LIR 
Dir zot disek Regann pou kone ki mikrob fer 
leker ros. Eh ou la Misie. Ou sipoze dan mo 
larme. Enn manier abiye sa? Li kapav lamod 
Persan me bi zen sanze.  
KENT  
Mo bon Segner, sey repoze enpe.  
LIR 
Shououout! Pa fer tapaz. Ris rido. Wi, 
koumsamem. Nou va dine gramaten.  
BOUFON  
Mo va al dormi midi.  
(Gloster rantre ) 
GLOSTER  
Vinn la mo bon kamwad. Kot Samazeste?  
KENT  
Li la; pa deranz li. Latet pa bon.  
GLOSTER  
Mo bon kamwad, sarye li ale vit!  
Mo'nn aprann ena enn plan pou touy li.  
Ena enn saret pe atann deor;  
Met li ladan e pran sime Dover  
Kot zot pou gagn konfor ek protexion.  
Fer vit. Si tarde so lavi, pou ou,  
Pou tou ki ed li pou zwenn dan tase.  
Vit pran li, swiv mwa. Swiv bien instrixion.  
KENT  
Somey rezilta so soufrans intans  
Ti kapav soulaz lespri ek lekor  
Me la mo bien per gerizon pou dir.  
(ar Boufon ) 
Ed mwa sarye li!  
Ale vinn ar nou!  
GLOSTER  
Vit! Vit! Pa perdi letan!  
(Kent, Gloster ek Boufon sarye  Lir, sorti ) 
EDGAR  
Ler nou trouv nou ene pe pas mizer,  
Soufrans kalme, nou bliye nou douler.  
Kan pas kord tousel, kapav fer nou kwar  
Ki zis nou pa konn lape ek boner  
Me kan divan nou lezot pe soufer  
Li bien pli fasil fer fas marenwar.  
Soufrans bwar mexinn!  Mo zis pe kourbe  
50 
 Pluck out his eyes.  
CORNWALL  
Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our  
sister company: the revenges we are bound to take  
upon your traitorous father are not fit for your  
beholding. Advise the duke, where you are going, to  
a most festinate preparati on: we are bound to the  
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent  
betwixt us. Farewell, dear sister: farewell, my  
lord of Gloucester.  
Enter OSWALD  
How now! where's the king?  
OSWALD  
My lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence:  
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,  
Hot questrists after him, met him at gate;  
Who, with some other of the lords dependants,  
Are gone with him towards Dover; where they boast  
To have well -armed friends.  
CORNWALL  
Get horses for your mistress.  
GONERIL  
Farewell, sweet lor d, and sister.  
CORNWALL  
Edmund, farewell.  
Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD  
Go seek the traitor Gloucester,  
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.  
Exeunt other Servants  
Though well we may not pass upon his life  
Without the form of justice, yet our power  
Shall do a courtesy to our wrath, which men  
May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?  
Enter GLOUCESTER, brought in by two or three  
REGAN  
Ingrateful fox! 'tis he.  
CORNWALL  
Bind fast his corky arms.  
GLOUCESTER  
What mean your graces? Good my  friends, consider  
You are my guests: do me no foul play, friends.  
CORNWALL  
Bind him, I say.  
Servants bind him  
REGAN  
Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!  
GLOUCESTER  
Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.  
CORNWALL  
To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find -- 
REGAN plucks his beard  
GLOUCESTER  
By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done  
To pluck me by the beard.  
REGAN  
So white, and such a traitor!  
GLOUCESTER  Me mo lerwa li, finn net kabose.  
Enn viktim zanfan; lot viktim papa!  
Tom, fer atansion; to ler pou vini  
Kan laverite triyonf lor manti.  
La, plis enportan se konfor lerwa.  
Aster konn kasiet!  (li sorti ) 
AK 3 SENN 7  
Kornwarl, Regann, Goneril, Edmon ek serviter 
rantre  
KORNWARL  (ar Goneril ) 
Vit al zwenn ou mari, Dik Albani, ar sa let la. 
Larme Franse finn debarke . - Al sers sa tret 
Gloster la! (detrwa serviter sorti ) 
REGANN  
Met li pandi!  
GONERIL  
Tir so lizie!  
KORNWARL  
Non, les li dan mo lame. Edmon, akonpagn mo 
belser. Li pa bon ou prezan ler tortir ou papa 
tret koumanse. Konsey Dik Albani, kan ou 
zwenn li, prepar vit pou lager. Mo pou fer 
parey. Mo bann emiser pou fer navet ant nou. 
Orevwar mo ser; orevwar Erl Gloster!  
(Oswarld rantre ) 
Kot lerwa?  
OSWARLD  
Erl Gloster finn ed li sove, ale.  
Enn trantenn sevalie lwayal ar li  
E lezot ki travay ar Erl Gloster  
Finn pran li pou amenn li Dover kot  
Zot dir for -for ena soutien arme.  
KORNWARL  
Prepar seval Madam Goneril!  (Oswarld sorti ) 
GONERIL  
Orevw ar mo bon Segner, orevwar mo ser.  
KORNWARL  
Orevwar Edmon!  (Goneril ek Edmon sorti ) 
Al sers sa tret la!  
Atas li kouma voler, amenn li!  (servant sorti ) 
Mem si pa kapav kondann li amor  
San swiv prosedir, nanye pa anpes  
Martiriz li. Mem bann ki pa dakor  
Pou konpran 'nou koler'.  
(bann serviter amenn Gloster ) 
Ki to dir tret?  
REGANN  
Vie renar, tret.  
KORNWARL  
Amar bien so lapo, lezo.  
GLOSTER  
51 
 Naughty lady,  
These hairs, which thou dost ravish from my chin,  
Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:  
With robbers' hands my hospitable favours  
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?  
CORNWALL  
Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?  
REGAN  
Be simple answerer, for we know the truth.  
CORNWALL  
And what confederacy have you with the traito rs 
Late footed in the kingdom?  
REGAN  
To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.  
GLOUCESTER  
I have a letter guessingly set down,  
Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,  
And not from one opposed.  
CORNWALL  
Cunning.  
REGAN  
And false.  
CORNWALL  
Where hast thou sent the king?  
GLOUCESTER  
To Dover.  
REGAN  
Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charged at peril -- 
CORNWALL  
Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.  
GLOUCESTER  
I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.  
REGAN  
Wherefore to Dover,  sir? 
GLOUCESTER  
Because I would not see thy cruel nails  
Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister  
In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.  
The sea, with such a storm as his bare head  
In hell -black night endured, would have buoy'd up,  
And quench 'd the stelled fires:  
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.  
If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,  
Thou shouldst have said 'Good porter, turn the key,'  
All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see  
The winged vengeance overtake such ch ildren.  
CORNWALL  
See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.  
Upon these eyes of thine I'll set my foot.  
GLOUCESTER  
He that will think to live till he be old,  
Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!  
REGAN  
One side will mock another; the other too.  
CORN WALL  
If you see vengeance, -- Kisasa Segner? Zot de pe bliye  
Zot dan mo lakaz. Ospitalite!  
KORNWARL  
Pa finn dir zot atas li.  (serviter atas so lame ) 
REGA NN 
Vilen tret!  
GLOSTER  
Ou konn bien madam, mwa mo pa enn tret.  
KORNWARL  
Amar li ar sez la. To pou kone – 
(Regann ris so labarb ) 
GLOSTER  
Onom bienseans! Li plis ki barbar  
Ris labarb enn vie bonom.  
REGANN  
Blan ar laz!  Pouri kouma tret!  
GLOSTER  
Madam leker -ros, 
Sak pwal tw'arase pou vinn enn temwen  
Kan lazistis zwenn. Zot dan mo lakaz,  
Kouma san manier zot kras dan lasiet  
Ki'nn donn zot manze. Ki zot lentansion?  
KORNWARL  
Dir kot let ki Lafrans finn avoy ou.  
REGANN  
Koz laverite! Pa sey anbet nou.  
KORNWA RL 
Ki konplisite ant ou ek bann tret  
Ki fek debarke.  
REGANN  
Kot ou finn avoy sa lerwa fouka?  
GLOSTER  
Mo kwar zot pe koz let mo'nn resevwar  
Ki enn bon dimoun, pa tret, finn ekrir.  
KORNWARL  
Fer malen!  
REGANN  
Me fos!  
KORNWARL  
Dir nou kot lerwa!  
GLOSTER  
Dan Do ver! 
REGANN  
Kifer Dover? Ti dir twa...  
KORNWARL  
Kifer Dover? Reponn nou move tret!  
GLOSTER  
Dan lizie siklonn! Oblize fer fas!  
REGANN  
Kifer dan Dover? To pa pou reponn?  
GLOSTER  
52 
 First Servant  
Hold your hand, my lord:  
I have served you ever since I was a child;  
But better service have I never done you  
Than now to bid you hold.  
REGAN  
How now, you dog!  
First Servant  
If you did wear a beard upon your chin,  
I'd shake it on this quarrel. What do you mean?  
CORNWALL  
My villain!  
They draw and fight  
First Servant  
Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.  
REGAN  
Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus!  
Takes a sword, and runs at him behind  
First Servant  
O, I am slain! My lord, you have one eye left  
To see some mischief on him. O!  
Dies  
CORNWALL  
Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!  
Where is thy lustre now?  
GLOUCESTER  
All dark and comfortless. Where's my son Edmund?  
Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,  
To quit this horrid act.  
REGAN  
Out, treacherous villain!  
Thou call'st on him that hates thee: it was he  
That made the overture of thy treasons to us;  
Who is too good to pity thee.  
GLOUCESTER  
O my follies! then Edgar was abused.  
Kind gods, forgiv e me that, and prosper him!  
REGAN  
Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell  
His way to Dover.  
Exit one with GLOUCESTER  
How is't, my lord? how look you?  
CORNWALL  
I have received a hurt: follow me, lady.  
Turn out that eyeless villain; throw this slave  
Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:  
Untimely comes this hurt: give me your arm.  
Exit CORNWALL, led by REGAN  
Second Servant  Pou ki mo pa trouv zot grif zanimo  
Tir so pov lizie; pou anpes to ser  
Plonz ledan vanpir dan lekor sakre.  
Kan li trouv soufrans enn pov vie bonom  
Dan rafal koltar, lamer demonte  
Ti pou anvi mont ver lesiel labrez  
Pou tengn so saler; me malerezman  
Lapli ti nway tou. Si bebet feros  
Ti pe irle kot laport lantouraz,  
Ou ti pou dir gard ien ouver laport.  
Pli pir kriote ena so limit.  
Mo sir, enn zour pa enn zour, mo pou trouv  
Vanzans aveg pini zanfan engra.  
KORNWARL  
Trouve? Bliye! Anpes li bouze! Les  
Mo fons mo talon da fon so lizie.  
GLOSTER  
Ed mwa seki kwar li'si pou vinn vie!  
Ayo bondie!  Pran mo lavi bondie!  
REGANN  
Lot la pou zalou! Pa les li sape!  
KORNWARL  
To pa pou trouv Vanzans ...  
PREMIE SERVITER  
Chombo Segner!  
Depi mo zanfan, mo'nn travay ar ou  
Me zame avan mo finn pli fidel  
Ki zordi kan mo pe dir ou 'chombo'.  
REGANN  
Kisasa? Lisien!  
PREMIE SERVITER  
Si ti ena labarb lor ou manton,  
Lerla, kikfwa...  (Kornwarl tir so lepe ) 
Pa fer sa Segner!  
KORNWARL  
Ti bachara! ( li fons lor li ) 
PREMIE SERVITER  (li tir so lepe ) 
Ou pe obliz mwa krwaz lepe ar ou.  
(li bles Kornwarl ) 
REGANN  
Donn mwa to lepe. S alte chouchoundarr!  
Ala pou twa! ( Li pik li par deryer ) 
PREMIE SERVITER  
Mo pe mor Segner. Ou enn lizie bon.  
Mo priye ou trouv Vanzans ... Adie! ( li mor ) 
KORNWARL  
Non, li pa pou trouve! Deor lerim! ( li tir so 
deziem lizie ) Ar ki to pou trouve aster? Koze!  
GLOSTER  
Nwar, nwar, nwar! Partou nwar! Kot twa 
Edmon?  
53 
 I'll never care what wickedness I do,  
If this man come to good.  
Third Servant  
If she live long,  
And in the end meet the old course  of death,  
Women will all turn monsters.  
Second Servant  
Let's follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam  
To lead him where he would: his roguish madness  
Allows itself to any thing.  
Third Servant  
Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs  
To apply to his  bleeding face. Now, heaven help him!  
Exeunt severally  Vanz mwa Edmon; vanz maler to papa!  
REGANN  
Dan vid vilen tret! Edmon mars ar nou;  
Li finn dir nou tou. To tousel aster.  
GLOSTER  
Ayo mo mama! Edgar inosan!  
Bondie pardonn mwa! Beni mo Edgar!  
REGANN  
Zet li  andeor! Les li renifle  
Lapousier Dover.  (enn serviter sorti ar Gloster ) 
Segner, ou pa bien?  
KORNWARL  
Sa koson la finn bles mwa mo Regann.  
Debaras kadav! Enn move moman!  
Ed mwa! Mo pe segne. (Kornwarl sorti ede par 
Regann ) 
DEZIEM SERVITER  
Si sa boug la pro spere, savedir  
Drwatir finn mor.  
TRWAZIEM SERVITER  
Si so fam viv lontan  
E finalman mor lamor natirel,  
Lerla tou bann fam pou vinn mons.  
DEZIEM SERVITER  
Nou'al ed Erl Gloster. Fer malad mantal  
Amenn li partou. Fasil zot rantre  
Kot lezot pa kapav.  
TRWAZIEM S ERVITER  
Twa al touzour!  
Mo'al rod kataplas pou pans so blesir. ( Zot sorti 
par lot laport ) 
 
 
 
  
54 
 TO WIND UP  
Some will argue that all this is a waste of time and energy for Mauritius is, according to them, a fully literate 
and multilingual country. Debating this issue with them is a waste of time and energy. Better concentrate on 
helping those who know that a ser ious problem exists and who think that new ideas are essential if we want 
the country to move from a middle income economy to a high income one; if we want to develop a national 
identity; if we want to make  of democracy a way of life.  
 
UBFL AND ECONOMIC GROWTH  
Mauritius has moved from prim ary technology to intermediate and high technology over a rather short period 
of time (approximately 60 years) and consequently many still think that literacy is useful only in office work 
and manual workers and artisans/craftsmen do not need it. The IT revol ution is also the revenge of literacy and 
today any society which wants to move forward must aim at universal literacy as a first step.  To keep abreast 
of latest technological developments all Mauritian workers must be fully literate in both Morisien and E nglish 
for to be efficient they hav e to embrace lifelong learning which is  the "ongoing, voluntary, and self -
motivated  pursuit of knowledge for either personal or professional reasons. Therefore, it not only enhances 
social inclusion, active citizenship an d personal development, but also competitiveness and employability.  The 
term recognizes that learning is not confined to childhood or the classroom but takes place throughout life and 
in a range of situations. During the last fifty years, constant scientif ic and technological innovation and change 
has had a profound effect on learning needs and styles. Learning can no longer be divided into a place and 
time to acquire knowledge (school) and a place and time to apply the knowledge acquired (the 
workplace).  Instead, learning can be seen as something that takes place on an on -going basis from our daily 
interactions with others and with the world around us. ” (Wikipedia)  
 
The fact that Mauritius is now a maritime republic compels us to reconsider the content of l ifelong learning 
which will have to put heavy emphasis on marine sciences and engineering. Land based culture will eventually 
play second fiddle to ocean based culture and we will have to motivate great numbers of young people to aim 
at advanced bilingual  literacy  to explore, exploit and preserve our resources.   
 
RAINBOW NATION AND DEMOCRACY  
But the main task ahead is the building of a rainbow nation where UNITY IN DIVERSITY is not an empty slogan. 
It’s not an easy task for the conflict between centrifugal  and centripetal tendencies will continue to harass us, 
at times thwarting our efforts to build supra -ethnic values. Can UBFL  HELP? Our answer is yes for the following 
reasons:  
 
 A literate and educated population is more likely to understand issues at stak e and will distinguish 
truth from falsehood, fact s from rumours and gossip, knowledge from propaganda, objective 
reasoning from demagogy.  
 Literacy and education make people more open -minded and open -mindedness helps us to distinguish 
between routine practi ce and fundamental values. Those who study sacred literature like the Bible , 
the Bhagavad -Gita or the Holy Koran will discover truths which selfish interests hide. UBFL will 
encourage genuine translations of all sacred texts into the two main languages of Mauritius and thus 
promote genuine knowledge  and unity . 
 UBFL will most certainly give a boost to literary creation which will offer healthy entertainment to the 
population, develop sensitivity and imagination , make Morisien and English more vibrant and rai se 
the standard of education.  
 Democracy will be made robust, dynamic and active not simply as a system of government but as a 
way of life.  
 It is also believed that UBFL might  contribute enormously to our fight against Alzheimer and 
schizophrenia.  
 
THIS IS AN ACT OF FAITH WHICH GIVES MEANING TO LIFE.  
18 November 2012  
