Lillian Diana Gish (October 14, 1893 – February 27, 1993) was an American actress, director and screenwriter.
Gish was a prominent film star from 1912 into the 1920s, being particularly associated with the films of director D. W. Griffith.
She also did considerable television work from the early 1950s into the 1980s, and closed her career playing opposite Bette Davis in the 1987 film The Whales of August.
The first several generations of Gishes were Dunkard ministers.
Their mother opened the Majestic Candy Kitchen, and the girls helped sell popcorn and candy to patrons of the old Majestic Theater, located next door.
The seventeen-year-old Lillian traveled to Shawnee, Oklahoma, where James's brother Alfred Grant Gish and his wife, Maude, lived.
An example of multi-sited ethnography is Nancy Scheper-Hughes' work on the international black market for the trade of human organs.
Research in kinship studies often crosses over into different anthropological subfields including medical, feminist, and public anthropology.
That is the matrix into which human children are born in the great majority of cases, and their first words are often kinship terms.
There are stark differences between communities in terms of marital practice and value, leaving much room for anthropological fieldwork.
The marital practice found in most cultures, however, is monogamy, where one woman is married to one man.
There are similar foundational differences where the act of procreation is concerned.
Only derived characters, such as the spine-producing areoles of cacti, provide evidence for descent from a common ancestor.
The difference is that the genetic code itself is used to decide evolutionary relationships, instead of being used indirectly via the characters it gives rise to.
Genetic evidence suggests that the true evolutionary relationship of multicelled organisms is as shown in the cladogram below – fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants.
Investigating how plant species are related to each other allows botanists to better understand the process of evolution in plants.
Although humans have always been interested in the natural history of the animals they saw around them, and made use of this knowledge to domesticate certain species, the formal study of zoology can be said to have originated with Aristotle.
Modern zoology has its origins during the Renaissance and early modern period, with Carl Linnaeus, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Robert Hooke, Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel and many others.
Observations of the large-scale structure of the Universe, a branch known as physical cosmology, have provided a deep understanding of the formation and evolution of the cosmos.
A hierarchical structure of matter began to form from minute variations in the mass density of space.
Gravitational aggregations clustered into filaments, leaving voids in the gaps.
Various fields of physics are crucial to studying the universe.
Finally, the latter is important for the understanding of the large-scale structure of the cosmos.
As the name suggests, an elliptical galaxy has the cross-sectional shape of an ellipse.
The first genetically modified ornamentals commercialized altered color.
Other genetically modified ornamentals include Chrysanthemum and Petunia.
The papaya ringspot virus devastated papaya trees in Hawaii in the twentieth century until transgenic papaya plants were given pathogen-derived resistance.
The second generation of crops aimed to improve the quality, often by altering the nutrient profile.
GM crops contribute by improving harvests through reducing insect pressure, increasing nutrient value and tolerating different abiotic stresses.
The majority of GM crops have been modified to be resistant to selected herbicides, usually a glyphosate or glufosinate based one.
Such a weapon must hold one or more subcritical fissile masses stable for deployment, then induce criticality (create a critical mass) for detonation.
One isotope of uranium, namely uranium-235, is naturally occurring and sufficiently unstable, but it is always found mixed with the more stable isotope uranium-238.
Alternatively, the element plutonium possesses an isotope that is sufficiently unstable for this process to be usable.
They detonated the first nuclear weapon in a test code-named "Trinity", near Alamogordo, New Mexico, on July 16, 1945.
In the wake of unprecedented devastation and casualties from a single weapon, the Japanese government soon surrendered, ending World War II.
Just over four years later, on August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated its first fission weapon.
It can also be understood as the free market idea applied to international trade.
The most outspoken critic of the church in France was François Marie Arouet de Voltaire, a representative figure of the enlightenment.
My one regret in dying is that I cannot aid you in this noble enterprise, the finest and most respectable which the human mind can point out."
Locke stood to refute Sir Robert Filmer's paternally founded political theory in favor of a natural system based on nature in a particular given system.
Unlike Aquinas's preponderant view on the salvation of the soul from original sin, Locke believes man's mind comes into this world as tabula rasa.
Though one could be worried about restrictions on liberty by benevolent monarchs or aristocrats, the traditional worry is that when rulers are politically unaccountable to the governed they will rule in their own interests, rather than the interests of the governed.
This alternative notation is called postfix notation.
The category of sets with functions as morphisms is the prototypical category.
For example, the decibel (dB) is a unit used to express ratio as logarithms, mostly for signal power and amplitude (of which sound pressure is a common example).
They help to describe frequency ratios of musical intervals, appear in formulas counting prime numbers or approximating factorials, inform some models in psychophysics, and can aid in forensic accounting.
The next integer is 4, which is the number of digits of 1430.
Prior to Napier's invention, there had been other techniques of similar scopes, such as the prosthaphaeresis or the use of tables of progressions, extensively developed by Jost Bürgi around 1600.
Her father died in Norman, Oklahoma, in 1912, but she had returned to Ohio a few months before this.
When Lillian and Dorothy were old enough they joined the theatre, often traveling separately in different productions.
Gish continued to perform on the stage, and in 1913, during a run of A Good Little Devil, she collapsed from anemia.
Her performance in these frigid conditions gave her lasting nerve damage in several fingers.
He utilized her expressive talents to the fullest, developing her into a suffering yet strong heroine.
She directed her sister Dorothy in one film, Remodeling Her Husband (1920), when D. W. Griffith took his unit on location.
The shift can be traced back to the 1960s, with the reassessment of kinship's basic principles offered by Edmund Leach, Rodney Neeham, David Schneider, and others.
This shift was progressed further by the emergence of second-wave feminism in the early 1970s, which introduced ideas of marital oppression, sexual autonomy, and domestic subordination.
At this time, there was the arrival of "Third World feminism", a movement that argued kinship studies could not examine the gender relations of developing countries in isolation, and must pay respect to racial and economic nuance as well.
In Jamaica, marriage as an institution is often substituted for a series of partners, as poor women cannot rely on regular financial contributions in a climate of economic instability.
With this technology, questions of kinship have emerged over the difference between biological and genetic relatedness, as gestational surrogates can provide a biological environment for the embryo while the genetic ties remain with a third party.
There have also been issues of reproductive tourism and bodily commodification, as individuals seek economic security through hormonal stimulation and egg harvesting, which are potentially harmful procedures.
There are cave paintings, engravings and sculptures in France dating back 15,000 years showing bison, horses and deer in carefully rendered detail.
Ancient knowledge of wildlife is illustrated by the realistic depictions of wild and domestic animals in the Near East, Mesopotamia and Egypt, including husbandry practices and techniques, hunting and fishing.
Aristotle, in the fourth century BC, looked at animals as living organisms, studying their structure, development and vital phenomena.
Four hundred years later, Roman physician Galen dissected animals to study their anatomy and the function of the different parts, because the dissection of human cadavers was prohibited at the time.
In Europe, Galen's work on anatomy remained largely unsurpassed and unchallenged up until the 16th century.
Having previously been the realm of gentlemen naturalists, over the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, zoology became an increasingly professional scientific discipline.
Elliptical galaxies are more commonly found at the core of galactic clusters, and may have been formed through mergers of large galaxies.
Spiral galaxies are typically surrounded by a halo of older stars.
About a quarter of all galaxies are irregular, and the peculiar shapes of such galaxies may be the result of gravitational interaction.
A radio galaxy is an active galaxy that is very luminous in the radio portion of the spectrum, and is emitting immense plumes or lobes of gas.
The large-scale structure of the cosmos is represented by groups and clusters of galaxies.
In the center of the Milky Way is the core, a bar-shaped bulge with what is believed to be a supermassive black hole at its center.
A few use the genes that encode for vegetative insecticidal proteins.
Less than one percent of GM crops contained other traits, which include providing virus resistance, delaying senescence and altering the plants composition.
Plants and plant cells have been genetically engineered for production of biopharmaceuticals in bioreactors, a process known as pharming.
Many drugs also contain natural plant ingredients and the pathways that lead to their production have been genetically altered or transferred to other plant species to produce greater volume.
They also pose less risk of being contaminated.
Vaccines are expensive to produce, transport, and administer, so having a system that could produce them locally would allow greater access to poorer and developing areas.
A radiological weapons is a type of nuclear weapon designed to distribute hazardous nuclear material in enemy areas.
While considered useless by a conventional military, such a weapon raises concerns over nuclear terrorism.
The treaty permitted underground nuclear testing.
After signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in 1996 (which had as of 2011 not entered into force), all of these states have pledged to discontinue all nuclear testing.
Throughout the Cold War, the opposing powers had huge nuclear arsenals, sufficient to kill hundreds of millions of people.
Currently nuclear power provides approximately 15.7% of the world's electricity (in 2004) and is used to propel aircraft carriers, icebreakers and submarines (so far economics and fears in some ports have prevented the use of nuclear power in transport ships).
Justice involves duties that are perfect duties—that is, duties that are correlated with rights.
He uses, On Liberty to discuss gender equality in society.
The Liberty of the Ancients was participatory republican liberty, which gave the citizens the right to directly influence politics through debates and votes in the public assembly.
Ancient Liberty was also limited to relatively small and homogenous societies, in which the people could be conveniently gathered together in one place to transact public affairs.
Instead, the voters would elect representatives, who would deliberate in Parliament on behalf of the people and would save citizens from the necessity of daily political involvement.
In Leviathan, Hobbes set out his doctrine of the foundation of states and legitimate governments and creating an objective science of morality.
Speaking of a number as requiring so many figures is a rough allusion to common logarithm, and was referred to by Archimedes as the “order of a number”.
Such methods are called prosthaphaeresis.
For example, each chamber of the shell of a nautilus is an approximate copy of the next one, scaled by a constant factor.
Logarithms are also linked to self-similarity.
It is used to quantify the loss of voltage levels in transmitting electrical signals, to describe power levels of sounds in acoustics, and the absorbance of light in the fields of spectrometry and optics.
Vinegar typically has a pH of about 3.
She turned down the money, requesting a more modest wage and a percentage so that the studio could use the funds to increase the quality of her films — hiring the best actors, screenwriters, etc.
Many of the silent era's leading ladies, such as Gish and Pickford, had been wholesome and innocent, but by the early 1930s (after the full adoption of sound and before the Motion Picture Production Code was enforced) these roles were perceived as outdated.
Louis Mayer wanted to stage a scandal ("knock her off her pedestal") to garner public sympathy for Gish, but Lillian didn't want to act both on screen and off, and returned to her first love, the theater.
Returning to movies, Gish was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1946 for Duel in the Sun.
She was considered for various roles in Gone with the Wind ranging from Ellen O'Hara, Scarlett's mother (which went to Barbara O'Neil), to prostitute Belle Watling (which went to Ona Munson).
She appeared as Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna in the short-lived 1965 Broadway musical Anya.
One critique is that, as its inception, the framework of kinship studies was far too structured and formulaic, relying on dense language and stringent rules.
Much of this development can be attributed to the rise in anthropologists working outside of academia and the increasing importance of globalization in both institutions and the field of anthropology.
The two types of institutions defined in the field of anthropology are total institutions and social institutions.
Anthropology of institutions may analyze labor unions, businesses ranging from small enterprises to corporations, government, medical organizations, education, prisons, and financial institutions.
Institutional anthropologists may study the relationship between organizations or between an organization and other parts of society.
More specifically, anthropologists may analyze specific events within an institution, perform semiotic investigations, or analyze the mechanisms by which knowledge and culture are organized and dispersed.
These developments, as well as the results from embryology and paleontology, were synthesized in the 1859 publication of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection; in this Darwin placed the theory of organic evolution on a new footing, by explaining the processes by which it can occur, and providing observational evidence that it had done so.
Darwin gave a new direction to morphology and physiology, by uniting them in a common biological theory: the theory of organic evolution.
An early necessity was to identify the organisms and group them according to their characteristics, differences and relationships, and this is the field of the taxonomist.
His ideas were centered on the morphology of animals.
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
Homo is the genus, and sapiens the specific epithet, both of them combined make up the species name.
The disk is surrounded by a spheroid halo of older, population II stars, as well as relatively dense concentrations of stars known as globular clusters.
These begin as a compact pre-stellar core or dark nebulae, which concentrate and collapse (in volumes determined by the Jeans length) to form compact protostars.
These clusters gradually disperse, and the stars join the population of the Milky Way.
7–18 Star formation occurs in dense regions of dust and gas, known as giant molecular clouds.
Almost all elements heavier than hydrogen and helium were created inside the cores of stars.
Over time, this hydrogen fuel is completely converted into helium, and the star begins to evolve.
Being stored in plants reduces the long-term cost as they can be disseminated without the need for cold storage, don't need to be purified, and have long term stability.
As of 2018 only three genetically modified animals have been approved, all in the USA.
Canada: Brainwaving The first transgenic mammals were produced by injecting viral DNA into embryos and then implanting the embryos in females.
The development of the CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing system as a cheap and fast way of directly modifying germ cells, effectively halving the amount of time needed to develop genetically modified mammals.
Genetically modified mice have been the most common mammals used in biomedical research, as they are cheap and easy to manipulate.
In 2009, scientists announced that they had successfully transferred a gene into a primate species (marmosets) for the first time.
Medical and dental x-ray imagers use of cobalt-60 or other x-ray sources.
Both contain a small source of 241Am that gives rise to a small constant current.
Another use in insect control is the sterile insect technique, where male insects are sterilized by radiation and released, so they have no offspring, to reduce the population.
The radiation sources used include radioisotope gamma ray sources, X-ray generators and electron accelerators.
As such it is also used on non-food items, such as medical hardware, plastics, tubes for gas-pipelines, hoses for floor-heating, shrink-foils for food packaging, automobile parts, wires and cables (isolation), tires, and even gemstones.
Microorganisms can no longer proliferate and continue their malignant or pathogenic activities.
In that state, each person would have a right, or license, to everything in the world.
Published in 1762, it became one of the most influential works of political philosophy in the Western tradition.
Those who think themselves the masters of others are indeed greater slaves than they."
The industrial revolution produced a parallel revolution in political thought.
In the mid-19th century, Marxism was developed, and socialism in general gained increasing popular support, mostly from the urban working class.
Unlike Marx who believed in historical materialism, Hegel believed in the Phenomenology of Spirit.
This "law", however, is less realistic than more recent models, such as Stevens's power law.)
When the logarithm of a random variable has a normal distribution, the variable is said to have a log-normal distribution.
For such a model, the likelihood function depends on at least one parameter that must be estimated.
Similarly, the merge sort algorithm sorts an unsorted list by dividing the list into halves and sorting these first before merging the results.
Lyapunov exponents use logarithms to gauge the degree of chaoticity of a dynamical system.
The Sierpinski triangle (pictured) can be covered by three copies of itself, each having sides half the original length.
She was interviewed in the television documentary series Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film (1980).
She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1720 Vine Street.
At the Cannes festival, Gish won a 10-minute standing ovation from the audience.
The episode "Marry for Murder" was broadcast on September 9, 1943.
She was awarded an Academy Honorary Award in 1971, and in 1984 she received an AFI Life Achievement Award.
The University awarded Gish the honorary degree of Doctor of Performing Arts the next day.
This new era would involve many new technological developments, such as mechanical recording.
Current Anthropology 43(Supplement):S5-17.Schieffelin, Bambi B. 2006.
Woolard, in her overview of "code switching", or the systematic practice of alternating linguistic varieties within a conversation or even a single utterance, finds the underlying question anthropologists ask of the practice—Why do they do that?—reflects a dominant linguistic ideology.
Other linguists have carried out research in the areas of language contact, language endangerment, and 'English as a global language'.
The work of Joel Kuipers develops this theme vis-a-vis the island of Sumba, Indonesia.
He feels, in fact, that the exemplary center idea is one of linguistic anthropology's three most important findings.
The dominant classification system is called the Linnaean taxonomy.
Understanding the structure and function of cells is fundamental to all of the biological sciences.
It focuses on how organs and organ systems work together in the bodies of humans and animals, in addition to how they work independently.
Physiological studies have traditionally been divided into plant physiology and animal physiology, but some principles of physiology are universal, no matter what particular organism is being studied.
For example, it generally involves scientists who have special training in particular organisms such as mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, or entomology, but use those organisms as systems to answer general questions about evolution.
Ethologists have been particularly concerned with the evolution of behavior and the understanding of behavior in terms of the theory of natural selection.
The ejection of the outer layers forms a planetary nebula.
This is an 11-year oscillation in sunspot number.
The Sun has also undergone periodic changes in luminosity that can have a significant impact on the Earth.
Above this layer is a thin region known as the chromosphere.
Above the core is the radiation zone, where the plasma conveys the energy flux by means of radiation.
A solar wind of plasma particles constantly streams outward from the Sun until, at the outermost limit of the Solar System, it reaches the heliopause.
Stable expression has been accomplished in sheep, pigs, rats and other animals.
Human alpha-1-antitrypsin is another protein that has been produced from goats and is used in treating humans with this deficiency.
Pig lungs from genetically modified pigs are being considered for transplantation into humans.
Animals have been engineered to grow faster, be healthier and resist diseases.
A GM pig called Enviropig was created with the capability of digesting plant phosphorus more efficiently than conventional pigs.
This could potentially benefit mothers who cannot produce breast milk but want their children to have breast milk rather than formula.
Plants cannot continue the natural ripening or aging process.
The specialty of processing food by ionizing radiation is the fact, that the energy density per atomic transition is very high, it can cleave molecules and induce ionization (hence the name) which cannot be achieved by mere heating.
However, the use of the term, cold pasteurization, to describe irradiated foods is controversial, because pasteurization and irradiation are fundamentally different processes, although the intended end results can in some cases be similar.
Marie Curie died from aplastic anemia which resulted from her high levels of exposure.
Approximately half of the deaths from Hiroshima and Nagasaki died two to five years afterward from radiation exposure.
A nuclear meltdown refers to the more serious hazard of releasing nuclear material into the surrounding environment.
In the Anglo-American world, anti-imperialism and pluralism began gaining currency at the turn of the 20th century.
This was the time of Jean-Paul Sartre and Louis Althusser, and the victories of Mao Zedong in China and Fidel Castro in Cuba, as well as the events of May 1968, led to increased interest in revolutionary ideology, especially by the New Left.
Colonialism and racism were important issues that arose.
The rise of feminism, LGBT social movements and the end of colonial rule and of the political exclusion of such minorities as African Americans and sexual minorities in the developed world has led to feminist, postcolonial, and multicultural thought becoming significant.
Rawls used a thought experiment, the original position, in which representative parties choose principles of justice for the basic structure of society from behind a veil of ignorance.
Contemporaneously with the rise of analytic ethics in Anglo-American thought, in Europe, several new lines of philosophy directed at the critique of existing societies arose between the 1950s and 1980s.
Another example is the p-adic logarithm, the inverse function of the p-adic exponential.
Carrying out the exponentiation can be done efficiently, but the discrete logarithm is believed to be very hard to calculate in some groups.
Square roots of negative numbers can be discussed within the framework of complex numbers.
In Ancient India, the knowledge of theoretical and applied aspects of square and square root was at least as old as the Sulba Sutras, dated around 800–500 BC (possibly much earlier).
The letter jīm resembles the present square root shape.
It defines an important concept of standard deviation used in probability theory and statistics.
Following Gish's 1993 death, the University raised funds to enlarge its gallery to display memorabilia received from Gish's estate.
The association between herself and D. W. Griffith was so close that some suspected a romantic connection, an issue never acknowledged by Gish, although several of their associates were certain they were at least briefly involved.
In the 1920s, Gish's association with Duell became something of a tabloid scandal when he sued her and made the details of their relationship public.
George Jean Nathan praised Gish's acting glowingly—comparing her to Eleonora Duse.
During the period of political turmoil in the US that lasted from the outbreak of World War II in Europe until the attack on Pearl Harbor, she maintained an outspoken non-interventionist stance.
Joseph Frank Keaton (October 4, 1895 – February 1, 1966), known professionally as Buster Keaton, was an American actor, comedian, film director, producer, screenwriter, and stunt performer.
Therefore, after a couple generations these languages may no longer be spoken.
To follow best practices of documentation, these records should be clearly annotated and kept safe within an archive of some kind.
Language revitalization is the practice of bringing a language back into common use.
The course aims to educate indigenous and non-indigenous students about the Lenape language and culture.
Encouraging those who already know the language to use it, increasing the domains of usage, and increasing the overall prestige of the language are all components of reclamation.
Social anthropology is the study of patterns of behaviour in human societies and cultures.
While researchers practice techniques specific to molecular biology, it is common to combine these with methods from genetics and biochemistry.
Biological systematics is the study of the diversification of living forms, both past and present, and the relationships among living things through time.
Phylogenetic trees of species and higher taxa are used to study the evolution of traits (e.g., anatomical or molecular characteristics) and the distribution of organisms (biogeography).
Biological systematics classifies species by using three specific branches.
Experimental systematics identifies and classifies animals based on the evolutionary units that comprise a species, as well as their importance in evolution itself.
Explaining the biodiversity of the planet and its organisms.
The planets were formed 4.6 billion years ago in the protoplanetary disk that surrounded the early Sun.
The planets continued to sweep up, or eject, the remaining matter during a period of intense bombardment, evidenced by the many impact craters on the Moon.
This process can form a stony or metallic core, surrounded by a mantle and an outer crust.
Some planets and moons accumulate enough heat to drive geologic processes such as volcanism and tectonics.
Astrostatistics is the application of statistics to astrophysics to the analysis of a vast amount of observational astrophysical data.
Cosmochemistry is the study of the chemicals found within the Solar System, including the origins of the elements and variations in the isotope ratios.
There have been suggestions that genetic engineering could be used to bring animals back from extinction.
It has been used to treat genetic disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, and Leber's congenital amaurosis.
Germline gene therapy results in any change being inheritable, which has raised concerns within the scientific community.
Aquaculture is a growing industry, currently providing over half the consumed fish worldwide.
Several groups have been developing zebrafish to detect pollution by attaching fluorescent proteins to genes activated by the presence of pollutants.
It was originally developed by one of the groups to detect pollution, but is now part of the ornamental fish trade, becoming the first genetically modified animal to become publicly available as a pet when in 2003 it was introduced for sale in the USA.
Military reactors that experienced similar accidents were Windscale in the United Kingdom and SL-1 in the United States.
Another topic of transhumanist research is how to protect humanity against existential risks, such as nuclear war or asteroid collision.
The assertion would lay the intellectual groundwork for the British philosopher Max More to begin articulating the principles of transhumanism as a futurist philosophy in 1990, and organizing in California a school of thought that has since grown into the worldwide transhumanist movement.
In the Discourse, Descartes envisioned a new kind of medicine that could grant both physical immortality and stronger minds.
St. Leon may have provided inspiration for his daughter Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein.
In particular, he was interested in the development of the science of eugenics, ectogenesis (creating and sustaining life in an artificial environment), and the application of genetics to improve human characteristics, such as health and intelligence.
Along somewhat different lines, a number of other continental thinkers—still largely influenced by Marxism—put new emphases on structuralism and on a "return to Hegel".
Another debate developed around the (distinct) criticisms of liberal political theory made by Michael Walzer, Michael Sandel and Charles Taylor.
Communitarians tend to support greater local control as well as economic and social policies which encourage the growth of social capital.
A pair of overlapping political perspectives arising toward the end of the 20th century are republicanism (or neo- or civic-republicanism) and the capability approach.
To a republican the mere status as a slave, regardless of how that slave is treated, is objectionable.
Both the capability approach and republicanism treat choice as something which must be resourced.
Most pocket calculators have a square root key.
The time complexity for computing a square root with n digits of precision is equivalent to that of multiplying two n-digit numbers.
Hilbert's problems are twenty-three problems in mathematics published by German mathematician David Hilbert in 1900.
For other problems, such as the 5th, experts have traditionally agreed on a single interpretation, and a solution to the accepted interpretation has been given, but closely related unsolved problems exist.
There are two problems that are not only unresolved but may in fact be unresolvable by modern standards.
The other twenty-one problems have all received significant attention, and late into the twentieth century work on these problems was still considered to be of the greatest importance.
His career declined when he signed with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and lost his artistic independence.
Many of Keaton's films from the 1920s remain highly regarded, such as Sherlock Jr. (1924), The General (1926), and The Cameraman (1928).
His father was Joseph Hallie "Joe" Keaton, who owned a traveling show with Harry Houdini called the Mohawk Indian Medicine Company, or the Keaton Houdini Medicine Show Company, which performed on stage and sold patent medicine on the side.
In Keaton's retelling, he was six months old when the incident occurred, and Harry Houdini gave him the nickname.
The act was mainly a comedy sketch.
A suitcase handle was sewn into Keaton's clothing to aid with the constant tossing.
British and American anthropologists including Gillian Tett and Karen Ho who studied Wall Street provided an alternative explanation for the financial crisis of 2007–2010 to the technical explanations rooted in economic and political theory.
This development was bolstered by Franz Boas's introduction of cultural relativism arguing that cultures are based on different ideas about the world and can therefore only be properly understood in terms of their own standards and values.
In 1906, Congolese pygmy Ota Benga was put by American anthropologist Madison Grant in a cage in the Bronx Zoo, labelled "the missing link" between an orangutan and the "white race" — Grant, a renowned eugenicist, was also the author of The Passing of the Great Race (1916).
Anthropology grew increasingly distinct from natural history and by the end of the 19th century the discipline began to crystallize into its modern form - by 1935, for example, it was possible for T.K. Penniman to write a history of the discipline entitled A Hundred Years of Anthropology.
Non-European societies were thus seen as evolutionary "living fossils" that could be studied in order to understand the European past.
However, as Stocking notes, Tylor mainly concerned himself with describing and mapping the distribution of particular elements of culture, rather than with the larger function, and he generally seemed to assume a Victorian idea of progress rather than the idea of non-directional, multilineal cultural change proposed by later anthropologists.
Taxonomy is that part of Systematics concerned with topics (a) to (d) above.
However, in modern usage, they can all be considered synonyms of each other.
Some claim systematics alone deals specifically with relationships through time, and that it can be synonymous with phylogenetics, broadly dealing with the inferred hierarchy of organisms.
Scientific classifications are aids in recording and reporting information to other scientists and to laymen.
In biology, a species is the basic unit of classification and a taxonomic rank of an organism, as well as a unit of biodiversity.
In addition, paleontologists use the concept of the chronospecies since fossil reproduction cannot be examined.
Astronomy clubs are located throughout the world and many have programs to help their members set up and complete observational programs including those to observe all the objects in the Messier (110 objects) or Herschel 400 catalogues of points of interest in the night sky.
Most amateurs work at visible wavelengths, but a small minority experiment with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum.
A number of amateur astronomers use either homemade telescopes or use radio telescopes which were originally built for astronomy research but which are now available to amateurs (e.g. the One-Mile Telescope).
Answers to these may require the construction of new ground- and space-based instruments, and possibly new developments in theoretical and experimental physics.
A deeper understanding of the formation of stars and planets is needed.
If so, what is the explanation for the Fermi paradox?
Zebrafish are model organisms for developmental processes, regeneration, genetics, behaviour, disease mechanisms and toxicity testing.
GM fish have been developed with promoters driving an over-production of growth hormone for use in the aquaculture industry to increase the speed of development and potentially reduce fishing pressure on wild stocks.
It obtained regulatory approval in 2015, the first non-plant GMO food to be commercialized.
Drosophila have been used to study genetics and inheritance, embryonic development, learning, behavior, and aging.
Malaria-resistant mosquitoes have been developed in the laboratory by inserting a gene that reduces the development of the malaria parasite and then use homing endonucleases to rapidly spread that gene throughout the male population (known as a gene drive).
Another approach is to use a sterile insect technique, whereby males genetically engineered to be sterile out compete viable males, to reduce population numbers.
These ideas have been common transhumanist themes ever since.
In the Material and Man section of the manifesto, Noboru Kawazoe suggests that:After several decades, with the rapid progress of communication technology, every one will have a "brain wave receiver" in his ear, which conveys directly and exactly what other people think about him and vice versa.
In 1966, FM-2030 (formerly F. M. Esfandiary), a futurist who taught "new concepts of the human" at The New School, in New York City, began to identify people who adopt technologies, lifestyles and world views transitional to posthumanity as "transhuman".
FM-2030 and Vita-More soon began holding gatherings for transhumanists in Los Angeles, which included students from FM-2030's courses and audiences from Vita-More's artistic productions.
A particular concern is the equal access to human enhancement technologies across classes and borders.
This left the World Transhumanist Association as the leading international transhumanist organization.
Notable for the theories that humans are social animals, and that the polis (Ancient Greek city state) existed to bring about the good life appropriate to such animals.
Burke was one of the biggest supporters of the American Revolution.
Chomsky is a leading critic of U.S. foreign policy, neoliberalism and contemporary state capitalism, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and mainstream news media.
William E. Connolly: Helped introduce postmodern philosophy into political theory, and promoted new theories of Pluralism and agonistic democracy.
Thomas Hill Green: Modern liberal thinker and early supporter of positive freedom.
His early work was heavily influenced by the Frankfurt School.
Hilbert lived for 12 years after Kurt Gödel published his theorem, but does not seem to have written any formal response to Gödel's work.
In discussing his opinion that every mathematical problem should have a solution, Hilbert allows for the possibility that the solution could be a proof that the original problem is impossible.
The first of these was proved by Bernard Dwork; a completely different proof of the first two, via ℓ-adic cohomology, was given by Alexander Grothendieck.
However, the Weil conjectures were, in their scope, more like a single Hilbert problem, and Weil never intended them as a programme for all mathematics.
Erdős often offered monetary rewards; the size of the reward depended on the perceived difficulty of the problem.
At least in the mainstream media, the de facto 21st century analogue of Hilbert's problems is the list of seven Millennium Prize Problems chosen during 2000 by the Clay Mathematics Institute.
However, Buster was always able to show the authorities that he had no bruises or broken bones.
Several times I'd have been killed if I hadn't been able to land like a cat.
Noticing that this caused the audience to laugh less, he adopted his famous deadpan expression when performing.
Despite tangles with the law and a disastrous tour of music halls in the United Kingdom, Keaton was a rising star in the theater.
In February 1917, he met Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle at the Talmadge Studios in New York City, where Arbuckle was under contract to Joseph M. Schenck.
Buster was such a natural in his first film, The Butcher Boy, he was hired on the spot.
His comparative studies, most influentially in the numerous editions of The Golden Bough, analyzed similarities in religious belief and symbolism globally.
The findings of the expedition set new standards for ethnographic description.
Other intellectual founders include W. H. R. Rivers and A. C. Haddon, whose orientation reflected the contemporary Parapsychologies of Wilhelm Wundt and Adolf Bastian, and Sir E. B. Tylor, who defined anthropology as a positivist science following Auguste Comte.
A. R. Radcliffe-Brown also published a seminal work in 1922.
This was particularly the case with Radcliffe-Brown, who spread his agenda for "Social Anthropology" by teaching at universities across the British Empire and Commonwealth.
He believed that indigenous terms used in ethnographic data should be translated into Anglo-American legal terms for the benefit of the reader.
All species (except viruses) are given a two-part name, a "binomial".
For example, Boa constrictor is one of four species of the genus Boa, with constrictor being the species's epithet.
Also, among organisms that reproduce only asexually, the concept of a reproductive species breaks down, and each clone is potentially a microspecies.
Species were seen from the time of Aristotle until the 18th century as fixed categories that could be arranged in a hierarchy, the great chain of being.
That understanding was greatly extended in the 20th century through genetics and population ecology.
Ernst Mayr emphasised reproductive isolation, but this, like other species concepts, is hard or even impossible to test.
What is the nature of dark matter and dark energy?
How did the first galaxies form?
Astrobiology, formerly known as exobiology, is an interdisciplinary scientific field that studies the origins, early evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe.
The origin and early evolution of life is an inseparable part of the discipline of astrobiology.
Biochemistry may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old.
Nonetheless, Earth is the only place in the universe humans know to harbor life.
The approach is similar to the sterile technique tested on mosquitoes, where males are transformed with a gene that prevents any females born from reaching maturity.
In this case a strain of pink bollworm that were sterilized with radiation were genetically engineered to express a red fluorescent protein making it easier for researchers to monitor them.
There is also potential to use the silk producing machinery to make other valuable proteins.
A GM chicken that produces the drug Kanuma, an enzyme that treats a rare condition, in its egg passed US regulatory approval in 2015.
There are proposals to use genetic engineering to control cane toads in Australia.
It is also relatively easy to produce stable transgenic nematodes and this along with RNAi are the major tools used in studying their genes.
The Mormon Transhumanist Association was founded in 2006.
Transhumanism stresses the evolutionary perspective, including sometimes the creation of a highly intelligent animal species by way of cognitive enhancement (i.e. biological uplift), but clings to a "posthuman future" as the final goal of participant evolution.
While such a "cultural posthumanism" would offer resources for rethinking the relationships between humans and increasingly sophisticated machines, transhumanism and similar posthumanisms are, in this view, not abandoning obsolete concepts of the "autonomous liberal subject", but are expanding its "prerogatives" into the realm of the posthuman.
However, other progressives have argued that posthumanism, whether it be its philosophical or activist forms, amounts to a shift away from concerns about social justice, from the reform of human institutions and from other Enlightenment preoccupations, toward narcissistic longings for a transcendence of the human body in quest of more exquisite ways of being.
Many transhumanists actively assess the potential for future technologies and innovative social systems to improve the quality of all life, while seeking to make the material reality of the human condition fulfill the promise of legal and political equality by eliminating congenital mental and physical barriers.
Some theorists such as Ray Kurzweil think that the pace of technological innovation is accelerating and that the next 50 years may yield not only radical technological advances, but possibly a technological singularity, which may fundamentally change the nature of human beings.
He advocated free-market capitalism in which the main role of the state is to maintain the rule of law and let spontaneous order develop.
David Hume: Hume criticized the social contract theory of John Locke and others as resting on a myth of some actual agreement.
Most famous for the United States Declaration of Independence.
Argued that an international organization was needed to preserve world peace.
He departed from Hobbes in that, based on the assumption of a society in which moral values are independent of governmental authority and widely shared, he argued for a government with power limited to the protection of personal property.
One of the founders of Western Marxism.
The Riemann hypothesis is noteworthy for its appearance on the list of Hilbert problems, Smale's list, the list of Millennium Prize Problems, and even the Weil conjectures, in its geometric guise.
1931, 1936 3rd Given any two polyhedra of equal volume, is it always possible to cut the first into finitely many polyhedral pieces that can be reassembled to yield the second?
— 12th Extend the Kronecker–Weber theorem on Abelian extensions of the rational numbers to any base number field.
1959 15th Rigorous foundation of Schubert's enumerative calculus.
1927 18th (a) Is there a polyhedron that admits only an anisohedral tiling in three dimensions?(b) What is the densest sphere packing?
A number is a mathematical object used to count, measure, and label.
Keaton later claimed that he was soon Arbuckle's second director and his entire gag department.
It was based on a successful play, The New Henrietta, which had already been filmed once, under the title The Lamb, with Douglas Fairbanks playing the lead.
He made a series of two-reel comedies, including One Week (1920), The Playhouse (1921), Cops (1922), and The Electric House (1922).
Comedy director Leo McCarey, recalling the freewheeling days of making slapstick comedies, said, "All of us tried to steal each other's gagmen.
During the railroad water-tank scene in Sherlock Jr., Keaton broke his neck when a torrent of water fell on him from a water tower, but he did not realize it until years afterward.
Keaton's character emerged unscathed, due to a single open window.
Departments of Social Anthropology at different Universities have tended to focus on disparate aspects of the field.
A people is any plurality of persons considered as a whole.
Four states — Massachusetts, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky — refer to themselves as the Commonwealth in case captions and legal process.
In some parts of the world, ethnology has developed along independent paths of investigation and pedagogical doctrine, with cultural anthropology becoming dominant especially in the United States, and social anthropology in Great Britain.
The 15th-century exploration of America by European explorers had an important role in formulating new notions of the Occident (the Western world), such as the notion of the "Other".
The progress of ethnology, for example with Claude Lévi-Strauss's structural anthropology, led to the criticism of conceptions of a linear progress, or the pseudo-opposition between "societies with histories" and "societies without histories", judged too dependent on a limited view of history as constituted by accumulative growth.
This method was used as a "classical" method of determining species, such as with Linnaeus early in evolutionary theory.
As a rule of thumb, microbiologists have assumed that kinds of Bacteria or Archaea with 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences more similar than 97% to each other need to be checked by DNA-DNA hybridisation to decide if they belong to the same species or not.
Modern approaches compare sequence similarity using computational methods.
A database, Barcode of Life Data Systems (BOLD), contains DNA barcode sequences from over 190,000 species.
For example, in a study done on fungi, studying the nucleotide characters using cladistic species produced the most accurate results in recognising the numerous fungi species of all the concepts studied.
Yet others defend this approach, considering "taxonomic inflation" pejorative and labelling the opposing view as "taxonomic conservatism"; claiming it is politically expedient to split species and recognise smaller populations at the species level, because this means they can more easily be included as endangered in the IUCN red list and can attract conservation legislation and funding.
The term exobiology was coined by molecular biologist and Nobel Prize winner Joshua Lederberg.
The term xenobiology is now used in a more specialized sense, to mean "biology based on foreign chemistry", whether of extraterrestrial or terrestrial (possibly synthetic) origin.
Though once considered outside the mainstream of scientific inquiry, astrobiology has become a formalized field of study.
In 1959, NASA funded its first exobiology project, and in 1960, NASA founded an Exobiology Program, which is now one of four main elements of NASA's current Astrobiology Program.
Advancements in the fields of astrobiology, observational astronomy and discovery of large varieties of extremophiles with extraordinary capability to thrive in the harshest environments on Earth, have led to speculation that life may possibly be thriving on many of the extraterrestrial bodies in the universe.
Missions specifically designed to search for current life on Mars were the Viking program and Beagle 2 probes.
Transgenic nematodes have been used to study viruses, toxicology, diseases, and to detect environmental pollutants.
Flatworms have the ability to regenerate themselves from a single cell.
The bristle worm, a marine annelid, has been modified.
The development of a regulatory framework concerning genetic engineering began in 1975, at Asilomar, California.
It is an international treaty that governs the transfer, handling, and use of genetically modified organisms.
Many experiments also need permission from a national regulatory group or legislation.
For example, Bostrom has written extensively on existential risks to humanity's future welfare, including ones that could be created by emerging technologies.
To counter this, Hawking emphasizes either self-design of the human genome or mechanical enhancement (e.g., brain-computer interface) to enhance human intelligence and reduce aggression, without which he implies human civilization may be too stupid collectively to survive an increasingly unstable system, resulting in societal collapse.
These thinkers argue that the ability to discuss in a falsification-based way constitutes a threshold that is not arbitrary at which it becomes possible for an individual to speak for themselves in a way that is not dependent on exterior assumptions.
In keeping with this, many prominent transhumanist advocates, such as Dan Agin, refer to transhumanism's critics, on the political right and left jointly, as "bioconservatives" or "bioluddites", the latter term alluding to the 19th century anti-industrialisation social movement that opposed the replacement of human manual labourers by machines.
The same scenario happens when people have certain neural implants that give them an advantage in the work place and in educational aspects.
Immortalism, a moral ideology based upon the belief that radical life extension and technological immortality is possible and desirable, and advocating research and development to ensure its realization.
Gave an account of statecraft in a realistic point of view instead of relying on idealism.
As a political theorist, he believed in separation of powers and proposed a comprehensive set of checks and balances that are necessary to protect the rights of an individual from the tyranny of the majority.
Introduced the concept of "repressive desublimation", in which social control can operate not only by direct control, but also by manipulation of desire.
Created the concept of ideology in the sense of (true or false) beliefs that shape and control social actions.
Mencius: One of the most important thinkers in the Confucian school, he is the first theorist to make a coherent argument for an obligation of rulers to the ruled.
Montesquieu: Analyzed protection of the people by a "balance of powers" in the divisions of a state.
More universally, individual numbers can be represented by symbols, called numerals; for example, "5" is a numeral that represents the number five.
Calculations with numbers are done with arithmetical operations, the most familiar being addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation.
Gilsdorf, Thomas E. Introduction to Cultural Mathematics: With Case Studies in the Otomies and Incas, John Wiley & Sons, Feb 24, 2012.Restivo, S. Mathematics in Society and History, Springer Science & Business Media, Nov 30, 1992.
During the 19th century, mathematicians began to develop many different abstractions which share certain properties of numbers, and may be seen as extending the concept.
A tallying system has no concept of place value (as in modern decimal notation), which limits its representation of large numbers.
Brahmagupta's Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta is the first book that mentions zero as a number, hence Brahmagupta is usually considered the first to formulate the concept of zero.
Aside from Steamboat Bill, Jr. (1928), Keaton's most enduring feature-length films include Our Hospitality (1923), The Navigator (1924), Sherlock Jr. (1924), Seven Chances (1925), The Cameraman (1928), and The General (1926).
Though it would come to be regarded as Keaton's greatest achievement, the film received mixed reviews at the time.
His distributor, United Artists, insisted on a production manager who monitored expenses and interfered with certain story elements.
The actors would phonetically memorize the foreign-language scripts a few lines at a time and shoot immediately after.
The director was usually Jules White, whose emphasis on slapstick and farce made most of these films resemble White's famous Three Stooges shorts.
However, director White's insistence on blunt, violent gags resulted in the Columbia shorts being the least inventive comedies he made.
However, the claims of such cultural universalism have been criticized by various 19th- and 20th-century social thinkers, including Marx, Nietzsche, Foucault, Derrida, Althusser, and Deleuze.
An ethnic group or ethnicity is a grouping of people who identify with each other on the basis of shared attributes that distinguish them from other groups such as a common set of traditions, ancestry, language, history, society, culture, nation, religion, or social treatment within their residing area.
Membership of an ethnic group tends to be defined by a shared cultural heritage, ancestry, origin myth, history, homeland, language, or dialect, symbolic systems such as religion, mythology and ritual, cuisine, dressing style, art, or physical appearance.
By way of language shift, acculturation, adoption and religious conversion, individuals or groups may over time shift from one ethnic group to another.
Whether through division or amalgamation, the formation of a separate ethnic identity is referred to as ethnogenesis.
In Early Modern English and until the mid-19th century, ethnic was used to mean heathen or pagan (in the sense of disparate "nations" which did not yet participate in the Christian oikumene), as the Septuagint used ta ethne ("the nations") to translate the Hebrew goyim "the nations, non-Hebrews, non-Jews".
If scientists mean that something applies to all species within a genus, they use the genus name without the specific name or epithet.
As further information comes to hand, the hypothesis may be corroborated or refuted.
Dividing a taxon into multiple, often new, taxa is called splitting.
The term quasispecies is sometimes used for rapidly mutating entities like viruses.
In ring species, when members of adjacent populations in a widely continuous distribution range interbreed successfully but members of more distant populations do not.
Ring species thus present a difficulty for any species concept that relies on reproductive isolation.
In late 2008, the Phoenix lander probed the environment for past and present planetary habitability of microbial life on Mars, and researched the history of water there.
In November 2011, NASA launched the Mars Science Laboratory mission carrying the Curiosity rover, which landed on Mars at Gale Crater in August 2012.
One is the informed assumption that the vast majority of life forms in our galaxy are based on carbon chemistries, as are all life forms on Earth.
The fact that carbon atoms bond readily to other carbon atoms allows for the building of extremely long and complex molecules.
A third assumption is to focus on planets orbiting Sun-like stars for increased probabilities of planetary habitability.
To that end, a number of instruments designed to detect Earth-sized exoplanets have been considered, most notably NASA's Terrestrial Planet Finder (TPF) and ESA's Darwin programs, both of which have been cancelled.
There is a near-universal system for assessing the relative risks associated with GMOs and other agents to laboratory staff and the community.
Different countries use different nomenclature to describe the levels and can have different requirements for what can be done at each level.
For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety.
Most countries that do not allow GMO cultivation do permit research using GMOs.
While only a few GMOs have been approved for cultivation in the EU a number of GMOs have been approved for import and processing.
The US policy does not focus on the process as much as other countries, looks at verifiable scientific risks and uses the concept of substantial equivalence.
Mathematics (from Greek: ) includes the study of such topics as quantity (number theory), structure (algebra), space (geometry), and change (analysis).
When mathematical structures are good models of real phenomena, mathematical reasoning can be used to provide insight or predictions about nature.
The research required to solve mathematical problems can take years or even centuries of sustained inquiry.
Mathematics developed at a relatively slow pace until the Renaissance, when mathematical innovations interacting with new scientific discoveries led to a rapid increase in the rate of mathematical discovery that has continued to the present day.
As evidenced by tallies found on bone, in addition to recognizing how to count physical objects, prehistoric peoples may have also recognized how to count abstract quantities, like time—days, seasons, or years.
Beginning in the 6th century BC with the Pythagoreans, with Greek mathematics the Ancient Greeks began a systematic study of mathematics as a subject in its own right.
His interpreters have debated the content of his political philosophy.
Plato: Wrote a lengthy dialog The Republic in which he laid out his political philosophy: citizens should be divided into three categories.
Ayn Rand: Founder of Objectivism and prime mover of the Objectivist and Libertarian movements in mid-twentieth-century America.
The government was to be separated from economics the same way and for the same reasons it was separated from religion.
Adam Smith: Often said to have founded modern economics; explained emergence of economic benefits from the self-interested behavior ("the invisible hand") of artisans and traders.
Socrates: Widely considered the founder of Western political philosophy, via his spoken influence on Athenian contemporaries; since Socrates never wrote anything, much of what we know about him and his teachings comes through his most famous student, Plato.
In a similar vein, Pāṇini (5th century BC) used the null (zero) operator in the Ashtadhyayi, an early example of an algebraic grammar for the Sanskrit language (also see Pingala).
By 130 AD, Ptolemy, influenced by Hipparchus and the Babylonians, was using a symbol for 0 (a small circle with a long overbar) within a sexagesimal numeral system otherwise using alphabetic Greek numerals.
Diophantus' previous reference was discussed more explicitly by Indian mathematician Brahmagupta, in Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta in 628, who used negative numbers to produce the general form quadratic formula that remains in use today.
At the same time, the Chinese were indicating negative numbers by drawing a diagonal stroke through the right-most non-zero digit of the corresponding positive number's numeral.
Classical Greek and Indian mathematicians made studies of the theory of rational numbers, as part of the general study of number theory.
The concept of decimal fractions is closely linked with decimal place-value notation; the two seem to have developed in tandem.
He made his last starring feature El Moderno Barba Azul (1946) in Mexico; the film was a low-budget production, and it may not have been seen in the United States until its release on VHS in the 1980s, under the title Boom in the Moon.
In In the Good Old Summertime, Keaton personally directed the stars Judy Garland and Van Johnson in their first scene together, where they bump into each other on the street.
Reaction was strong enough for a local Los Angeles station to offer Keaton his own show, also broadcast live, in 1950.
Buster Keaton's wife Eleanor also was seen in the series (notably as Juliet to Buster's Romeo in a little-theater vignette).
Keaton's periodic television appearances during the 1950s and 1960s helped to revive interest in his silent films.
Well into his fifties, Keaton successfully recreated his old routines, including one stunt in which he propped one foot onto a table, then swung the second foot up next to it and held the awkward position in midair for a moment before crashing to the stage floor.
In the 19th century, the term came to be used in the sense of "peculiar to a race, people or nation", in a return to the original Greek meaning.
ethnic, a. and n.") Depending on context, the term nationality may be used either synonymously with ethnicity or synonymously with citizenship (in a sovereign state).
Whether ethnicity qualifies as a cultural universal is to some extent dependent on the exact definition used.
According to Thomas Hylland Eriksen, the study of ethnicity was dominated by two distinct debates until recently.
The instrumentalist approach, on the other hand, treats ethnicity primarily as an ad hoc element of a political strategy, used as a resource for interest groups for achieving secondary goals such as, for instance, an increase in wealth, power, or status.
Constructivists view national and ethnic identities as the product of historical forces, often recent, even when the identities are presented as old.
Speciation depends on a measure of reproductive isolation, a reduced gene flow.
Bacteria can exchange plasmids with bacteria of other species, including some apparently distantly related ones in different phylogenetic domains, making analysis of their relationships difficult, and weakening the concept of a bacterial species.
Mass extinctions had a variety of causes including volcanic activity, climate change, and changes in oceanic and atmospheric chemistry, and they in turn had major effects on Earth's ecology, atmosphere, land surface and waters.
Some observers claim that there is an inherent conflict between the desire to understand the processes of speciation and the need to identify and to categorise.
One of the classic cases in North America is that of the protected northern spotted owl which hybridises with the unprotected California spotted owl and the barred owl; this has led to legal debates.
A form was distinguished by being shared by all its members, the young inheriting any variations they might have from their parents.
Drake originally formulated the equation merely as an agenda for discussion at the Green Bank conference, but some applications of the formula had been taken literally and related to simplistic or pseudoscientific arguments.
The discovery of extremophiles, organisms able to survive in extreme environments, became a core research element for astrobiologists, as they are important to understand four areas in the limits of life in planetary context: the potential for panspermia, forward contamination due to human exploration ventures, planetary colonization by humans, and the exploration of extinct and extant extraterrestrial life.
Even life in the ocean depths, where sunlight cannot reach, was thought to obtain its nourishment either from consuming organic detritus rained down from the surface waters or from eating animals that did.
This chemosynthesis revolutionized the study of biology and astrobiology by revealing that life need not be sun-dependent; it only requires water and an energy gradient in order to exist.
Ten hardy organisms selected for the LIFE project, by Amir Alexander Deinococcus radiodurans, Bacillus subtilis, yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, seeds from Arabidopsis thaliana ('mouse-ear cress'), as well as the invertebrate animal Tardigrade.
Jupiter's moon, Europa, and Saturn's moon, Enceladus, are now considered the most likely locations for extant extraterrestrial life in the Solar System due to their subsurface water oceans where radiogenic and tidal heating enables liquid water to exist.
One of the key issues concerning regulators is whether GM products should be labeled.
The dispute involves consumers, producers, biotechnology companies, governmental regulators, non-governmental organizations, and scientists.
Most concerns are around the health and environmental effects of GMOs.
Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe.
Gene flow between GM crops and compatible plants, along with increased use of broad-spectrum herbicides, can increase the risk of herbicide resistant weed populations.
In order to address some of these concerns some GMOs have been developed with traits to help control their spread.
The greatest mathematician of antiquity is often held to be Archimedes (c. 287–212 BC) of Syracuse.
The Hindu–Arabic numeral system and the rules for the use of its operations, in use throughout the world today, evolved over the course of the first millennium AD in India and were transmitted to the Western world via Islamic mathematics.
The most notable achievement of Islamic mathematics was the development of algebra.
During the early modern period, mathematics began to develop at an accelerating pace in Western Europe.
Perhaps the foremost mathematician of the 19th century was the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss, who made numerous contributions to fields such as algebra, analysis, differential geometry, matrix theory, number theory, and statistics.
Mathematical discoveries continue to be made today.
Max Stirner: Important thinker within anarchism and the main representative of the anarchist current known as individualist anarchism.
Other forms of social philosophy include political philosophy and jurisprudence, which are largely concerned with the societies of state and government and their functioning.
Pre-Socratic philosophy, also known as early Greek philosophy, is ancient Greek philosophy before Socrates.
Their work and writing has been almost entirely lost.
Pre-Socratic philosophy began in the 6th century BCE with the three Milesians: Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes.
Xenophanes is known for his critique of the anthropomorphism of gods.
However, Pythagoras believed in the absoluteness of numbers, and could not accept the existence of irrational numbers.
By the 17th century, mathematicians generally used decimal fractions with modern notation.
In 1872, the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil E. Kossak), Eduard Heine, Georg Cantor, and Richard Dedekind was brought about.
Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of real numbers, separating all rational numbers into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
Hence it was necessary to consider the wider set of algebraic numbers (all solutions to polynomial equations).
Aristotle defined the traditional Western notion of mathematical infinity.
Keaton had prints of the features Three Ages, Sherlock Jr., Steamboat Bill, Jr., and College (missing one reel), and the shorts "The Boat" and "My Wife's Relations", which Keaton and Rohauer then transferred to Cellulose acetate film from deteriorating nitrate film stock.
In a series of silent television commercials for Simon Pure Beer made in 1962 by Jim Mohr in Buffalo, New York, Keaton revisited some of the gags from his silent film days.
In December 1958, Keaton was a guest star in the episode "A Very Merry Christmas" of The Donna Reed Show on ABC.
In 1960, he returned to MGM for the final time, playing a lion tamer in a 1960 adaptation of Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
He worked with comedian Ernie Kovacs on a television pilot tentatively titled "Medicine Man," shooting scenes for it on January 12, 1962—the day before Kovacs died in a car crash. "
He traveled from one end of Canada to the other on a motorized handcar, wearing his traditional pork pie hat and performing gags similar to those in films that he made 50 years before.
This is in the context of debates over multiculturalism in countries, such as the United States and Canada, which have large immigrant populations from many different cultures, and post-colonialism in the Caribbean and South Asia.
Third, group formation resulted from the drive to monopolize power and status.
Barth went further than Weber in stressing the constructed nature of ethnicity.
He wanted to part with anthropological notions of cultures as bounded entities, and ethnicity as primordialist bonds, replacing it with a focus on the interface between groups.
He agrees with Joan Vincent's observation that (in Cohen's paraphrase) "Ethnicity... can be narrowed or broadened in boundary terms in relation to the specific needs of political mobilization.
Ethnic groups came to be defined as social rather than biological entities.
He established the idea of a taxonomic hierarchy of classification based upon observable characteristics and intended to reflect natural relationships.
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, in his 1809 Zoological Philosophy, described the transmutation of species, proposing that a species could change over time, in a radical departure from Aristotelian thinking.
Genus (plural genera) is a taxonomic rank used in the biological classification of living and fossil organisms as well as viruses.
E.g. Panthera leo (lion) and Panthera onca (jaguar) are two species within the genus Panthera.
A botanical example would be Hibiscus arnottianus, a particular species of the genus Hibiscus native to Hawaii.
Available names are those published in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature and not otherwise suppressed by subsequent decisions of the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN); the earliest such name for any taxon (for example, a genus) should then be selected as the "valid" (i.e., current or accepted) name for the taxon in question.
The cosmic dust permeating the universe contains complex organic compounds ("amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure") that could be created naturally, and rapidly, by stars.
PAHs seem to have been formed shortly after the Big Bang, are widespread throughout the universe, and are associated with new stars and exoplanets.
Experimental astroecology investigates resources in planetary soils, using actual space materials in meteorites.
On the largest scale, cosmoecology concerns life in the universe over cosmological times.
Specializations include cosmochemistry, biochemistry and organic geochemistry.
Some regions on Earth, such as the Pilbara in Western Australia and the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, are also considered to be geological analogs to regions of Mars, and as such, might be able to provide clues on how to search for past life on Mars.
Other environmental and agronomic concerns include a decrease in biodiversity, an increase in secondary pests (non-targeted pests) and evolution of resistant insect pests.
The impact of Bt crops on beneficial non-target organisms became a public issue after a 1999 paper suggested they could be toxic to monarch butterflies.
With the ability to genetically engineer humans now possible there are ethical concerns over how far this technology should go, or if it should be used at all.
October 2006 the rigor of the regulatory process, consolidation of control of the food supply in companies that make and sell GMOs, exaggeration of the benefits of genetic modification, or concerns over the use of herbicides with glyphosate.
GMOs arrived on the scene as the public confidence in food safety, attributed to recent food scares such as Bovine spongiform encephalopathy and other scandals involving government regulation of products in Europe, was low.
Genetic engineering, also called genetic modification or genetic manipulation, is the direct manipulation of an organism's genes using biotechnology.
In particular, mathēmatikḗ tékhnē meant "the mathematical art."
In English, the noun mathematics takes a singular verb.
However, Aristotle also noted a focus on quantity alone may not distinguish mathematics from sciences like physics; in his view, abstraction and studying quantity as a property "separable in thought" from real instances set mathematics apart.
A peculiarity of intuitionism is that it rejects some mathematical ideas considered valid according to other definitions.
Haskell Curry defined mathematics simply as "the science of formal systems".
Popper also noted that "I shall certainly admit a system as empirical or scientific only if it is capable of being tested by experience."
The Eleatic school (Parmenides, Zeno of Elea, and Melissus) followed in the 5th century BCE.
Anaxagoras and Empedocles offered a pluralistic account of how the universe was created.
It was first used by the German philosopher J.A. Eberhard as "vorsokratische Philosophie''' in the late 18th century.
The term comes with drawbacks, as several of the pre-Socratics were highly interested in ethics and how to live the best life.
According to James Warren, the distinction between the pre-Socratic philosophers and philosophers of the classical era is demarcated not so much by Socrates, but by geography and what texts survived.
Scholar André Laks distinguishes two traditions of separating pre-Socratics from Socratics, dating back to the classical era and running through current times.
But the next major advance in the theory was made by Georg Cantor; in 1895 he published a book about his new set theory, introducing, among other things, transfinite numbers and formulating the continuum hypothesis.
A modern geometrical version of infinity is given by projective geometry, which introduces "ideal points at infinity", one for each spatial direction.
The idea of the graphic representation of complex numbers had appeared, however, as early as 1685, in Wallis's De algebra tractatus.
In 240 BC, Eratosthenes used the Sieve of Eratosthenes to quickly isolate prime numbers.
Other results concerning the distribution of the primes include Euler's proof that the sum of the reciprocals of the primes diverges, and the Goldbach conjecture, which claims that any sufficiently large even number is the sum of two primes.
Traditionally, the sequence of natural numbers started with 1 (0 was not even considered a number for the Ancient Greeks.)
Also in 1965, he traveled to Italy to play a role in Due Marines e un Generale, co-starring Franco Franchi and Ciccio Ingrassia.
One of his most biting parodies is The Frozen North (1922), a satirical take on William S. Hart's Western melodramas, like Hell's Hinges (1916) and The Narrow Trail (1917).
Audiences of the 1920s recognized the parody and thought the film hysterically funny.
The short also featured the impression of a performing monkey which was likely derived from a co-biller's act (called Peter the Great).
Note: Source misspells Keaton's frequent appellation as "Great Stoneface".
Keaton dated actress Dorothy Sebastian beginning in the 1920s and Kathleen Key in the early 1930s.
Examples of various approaches are primordialism, essentialism, perennialism, constructivism, modernism, and instrumentalism.
"Essentialist primordialism" further holds that ethnicity is an a priori fact of human existence, that ethnicity precedes any human social interaction and that it is unchanged by it.
"Kinship primordialism" holds that ethnic communities are extensions of kinship units, basically being derived by kinship or clan ties where the choices of cultural signs (language, religion, traditions) are made exactly to show this biological affinity.
"Geertz's primordialism", notably espoused by anthropologist Clifford Geertz, argues that humans in general attribute an overwhelming power to primordial human "givens" such as blood ties, language, territory, and cultural differences.
Smith (1999) distinguishes two variants: "continuous perennialism", which claims that particular nations have existed for very long periods, and "recurrent perennialism", which focuses on the emergence, dissolution and reappearance of nations as a recurring aspect of human history.
This view holds that the concept of ethnicity is a tool used by political groups to manipulate resources such as wealth, power, territory or status in their particular groups' interests.
In botany, similar concepts exist but with different labels.
However, many names have been assigned (usually unintentionally) to two or more different genera.
A name that means two different things is a homonym.
However, a genus in one kingdom is allowed to bear a scientific name that is in use as a generic name (or the name of a taxon in another rank) in a kingdom that is governed by a different nomenclature code.
For instance, among (non-avian) reptiles, which have about 1180 genera, the most (>300) have only 1 species, ~360 have between 2 and 4 species, 260 have 5–10 species, ~200 have 11–50 species, and only 27 genera have more than 50 species.
Which species are assigned to a genus is somewhat arbitrary.
Indeed, it seems likely that the basic building blocks of life anywhere will be similar to those on Earth, in the generality if not in the detail.
Only two of the natural atoms, carbon and silicon, are known to serve as the backbones of molecules sufficiently large to carry biological information.
The four most likely candidates for life in the Solar System are the planet Mars, the Jovian moon Europa, and Saturn's moons Titan and Enceladus.
At the Martian low temperatures and low pressure, liquid water is likely to be highly saline.
On 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of "clay-like minerals" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa.
Some scientists think it possible that these liquid hydrocarbons might take the place of water in living cells different from those on Earth.
A construct is usually created and used to insert this DNA into the host organism.
The new DNA can be inserted randomly, or targeted to a specific part of the genome.
Rudolf Jaenisch created the first GM animal when he inserted foreign DNA into a mouse in 1974.
Genetically modified food has been sold since 1994, with the release of the Flavr Savr tomato.
In 2016 salmon modified with a growth hormone were sold.
By knocking out genes responsible for certain conditions it is possible to create animal model organisms of human diseases.
Intuition and experimentation also play a role in the formulation of conjectures in both mathematics and the (other) sciences.
For example, the physicist Richard Feynman invented the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics using a combination of mathematical reasoning and physical insight, and today's string theory, a still-developing scientific theory which attempts to unify the four fundamental forces of nature, continues to inspire new mathematics.
A distinction is often made between pure mathematics and applied mathematics.
As in most areas of study, the explosion of knowledge in the scientific age has led to specialization: there are now hundreds of specialized areas in mathematics and the latest Mathematics Subject Classification runs to 46 pages.
Many mathematicians talk about the elegance of mathematics, its intrinsic aesthetics and inner beauty.
G. H. Hardy in A Mathematician's Apology expressed the belief that these aesthetic considerations are, in themselves, sufficient to justify the study of pure mathematics.
Many of the works are titled Peri Physeos, or On Nature, a title probably attributed later by other authors.
Adding more difficulty to their interpretation is the obscure language they used.
Theophrastus, Aristotle's successor, wrote an encyclopedic book Opinion of the Physicists that was the standard work about the pre-Socratics in ancient times.
Scholars now use this book to reference the fragments using a coding scheme called Diels–Kranz numbering.
After that is a code regarding whether the fragment is a testimonia, coded as "A", or "B" if is a direct quote from the philosopher.
The pre-Socratic era lasted about two centuries, during which the expanding Persian Achaemenid Empire was stretching to the west, while the Greeks were advancing in trade and sea routes, reaching Cyprus and Syria.
In this base 10 system, the rightmost digit of a natural number has a place value of 1, and every other digit has a place value ten times that of the place value of the digit to its right.
Negative numbers are usually written with a negative sign (a minus sign).
Here the letter Z comes .
Fractions can be greater than, less than, or equal to 1 and can also be positive, negative, or 0.
The following paragraph will focus primarily on positive real numbers.
Thus, for example, one half is 0.5, one fifth is 0.2, one-tenth is 0.1, and one fiftieth is 0.02.
He escaped a straitjacket with tricks learned from Harry Houdini.
She filed for divorce in 1935 after finding Keaton with Leah Clampitt Sewell, the wife of millionaire Barton Sewell, in a hotel in Santa Barbara.
He stopped drinking for five years.
The marriage lasted until his death.
Confined to a hospital during his final days, Keaton was restless and paced the room endlessly, desiring to return home.
The screenplay, by Sidney Sheldon, who also directed the film, was loosely based on Keaton's life but contained many factual errors and merged his three wives into one character.
"Instrumentalist perennialism", while seeing ethnicity primarily as a versatile tool that identified different ethnics groups and limits through time, explains ethnicity as a mechanism of social stratification, meaning that ethnicity is the basis for a hierarchical arrangement of individuals.
According to Donald Noel, ethnic stratification will emerge only when specific ethnic groups are brought into contact with one another, and only when those groups are characterized by a high degree of ethnocentrism, competition, and differential power.
Continuing with Noel's theory, some degree of differential power must be present for the emergence of ethnic stratification.
The different ethnic groups must be competing for some common goal, such as power or influence, or a material interest, such as wealth or territory.
It holds that ethnic groups are only products of human social interaction, maintained only in so far as they are maintained as valid social constructs in societies.
They hold that prior to this ethnic homogeneity was not considered an ideal or necessary factor in the forging of large-scale societies.
What belongs to a family—or if a described family should be recognized at all—are proposed and determined by practicing taxonomists.
Often there is no exact agreement, with different taxonomists each taking a different position.
Michael Novacek (1986) inserted them at the same position.
There are no objective rules for describing a class, but for well-known animals there is likely to be consensus.
In botany, classes are now rarely discussed.
Informally, phyla can be thought of as groupings of organisms based on general specialization of body plan.
There are no known abiotic processes on the planet that could cause its presence.
Yamato 000593, the second largest meteorite from Mars, was found on Earth in 2000.
On 5 March 2011, Richard B. Hoover, a scientist with the Marshall Space Flight Center, speculated on the finding of alleged microfossils similar to cyanobacteria in CI1 carbonaceous meteorites in the fringe Journal of Cosmology, a story widely reported on by mainstream media.
Evidence of perchlorates have been found throughout the solar system, and specifically on Mars.
Improved detection methods and increased observation time will undoubtedly discover more planetary systems, and possibly some more like ours.
The aim is to detect those organisms that are able to survive space travel conditions and to maintain the proliferating capacity.
The rise of commercialised genetically modified crops has provided economic benefit to farmers in many different countries, but has also been the source of most of the controversy surrounding the technology.
Gene flow, impact on non-target organisms, control of the food supply and intellectual property rights have also been raised as potential issues.
This is much faster, can be used to insert any genes from any organism (even ones from different domains) and prevents other undesirable genes from also being added.
Drugs, vaccines and other products have been harvested from organisms engineered to produce them.
Synthetic biology is an emerging discipline that takes genetic engineering a step further by introducing artificially synthesised material into an organism.
If genetic material from another species is added to the host, the resulting organism is called transgenic.
A theorem expressed as a characterization of the object by these features is the prize.
Euler (1707–1783) was responsible for many of the notations in use today.
Unlike natural language, where people can often equate a word (such as cow) with the physical object it corresponds to, mathematical symbols are abstract, lacking any physical analog.
Mathematical language also includes many technical terms such as homeomorphism and integrable that have no meaning outside of mathematics.
Mathematicians refer to this precision of language and logic as "rigor".
This is to avoid mistaken "theorems", based on fallible intuitions, of which many instances have occurred in the history of the subject.
The Greeks revolted in 499 BCE, but ultimately were defeated in 494 BCE.
Several factors contributed to the birth of pre-Socratic philosophy in Ancient Greece.
Another factor was the ease and frequency of intra-Greek travel, which led to the blending and comparison of ideas.
The democratic political system of independent poleis also contributed to the rise of philosophy.
The philosophers' ideas, were, to a certain extent, answers to questions that were subtly present in the work of Homer and Hesiod.
They are considered predecessors of the pre-Socratics since they seek to address the origin of the world and to organize traditional folklore and legends systematically.
Not only these prominent examples but almost all real numbers are irrational and therefore have no repeating patterns and hence no corresponding decimal numeral.
Since not even the second digit after the decimal place is preserved, the following digits are not significant.
For example, 0.999..., 1.0, 1.00, 1.000, ..., all represent the natural number 1.
Finally, if all of the digits in a numeral are 0, the number is 0, and if all of the digits in a numeral are an unending string of 9's, you can drop the nines to the right of the decimal place, and add one to the string of 9s to the left of the decimal place.
Thus the real numbers are a subset of the complex numbers.
The fundamental theorem of algebra asserts that the complex numbers form an algebraically closed field, meaning that every polynomial with complex coefficients has a root in the complex numbers.
Dedicated to bringing greater public attention to Keaton's life and work, the membership includes many individuals from the television and film industry: actors, producers, authors, artists, graphic novelists, musicians, and designers, as well as those who simply admire the magic of Buster Keaton.
Hirschfeld said that modern film stars were more difficult to depict, that silent film comedians such as Laurel and Hardy and Keaton "looked like their caricatures".
Film critic Roger Ebert stated, "The greatest of the silent clowns is Buster Keaton, not only because of what he did, but because of how he did it.
Filmmaker Mel Brooks has credited Buster Keaton as a major influence, saying: "I owe (Buster) a lot on two levels: One for being such a great teacher for me as a filmmaker myself, and the other just as a human being watching this gifted person doing these amazing things.
Actor and stunt performer Johnny Knoxville cites Keaton as an inspiration when coming up with ideas for Jackass projects.
Lewis was particularly moved by the fact that Eleanor said his eyes looked like Keaton's.
Members of an ethnic group, on the whole, claim cultural continuities over time, although historians and cultural anthropologists have documented that many of the values, practices, and norms that imply continuity with the past are of relatively recent invention.
It is based on the notion of "culture".
This view arose as a way to justify enslavement of African Americans and genocide of Native Americans in a society that was officially founded on freedom for all.
Many of the foremost scientists of the time took up the idea of racial difference and found that white Europeans were superior.
Instead of attributing the marginalized status of people of color in the United States to their inherent biological inferiority, he attributed it to their failure to assimilate into American culture.
They argue in Racial Formation in the United States that the ethnicity theory was exclusively based on the immigration patterns of the white population and did take into account the unique experiences of non-whites in the United States.
So phyla can be merged or split if it becomes apparent that they are related to one another or not.
By Budd and Jensen's definition, a phylum is defined by a set of characters shared by all its living representatives.
However, as it is character based, it is easy to apply to the fossil record.
However, proving that a fossil belongs to the crown group of a phylum is difficult, as it must display a character unique to a sub-set of the crown group.
The table below follows the influential (though contentious) Cavalier-Smith system in equating "Plantae" with Archaeplastida, a group containing Viridiplantae and the algal Rhodophyta and Glaucophyta divisions.
The division Pinophyta may be used for all gymnosperms (i.e. including cycads, ginkgos and gnetophytes), or for conifers alone as below.
These stress responses could also allow them to survive in harsh space conditions, although evolution also puts some restrictions on their use as analogues to extraterrestrial life.
The formation of spores allows for it to survive extreme environments while still being able to restart cellular growth.
The two landers were identical, so the same tests were carried out at two places on Mars' surface; Viking 1 near the equator and Viking 2 further north.
In astronomy, extinction is the absorption and scattering of electromagnetic radiation by dust and gas between an emitting astronomical object and the observer.
For stars that lie near the plane of the Milky Way and are within a few thousand parsecs of the Earth, extinction in the visual band of frequencies (photometric system) is roughly 1.8 magnitudes per kiloparsec.
Reddening occurs due to the light scattering off dust and other matter in the interstellar medium.
In 1973 Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen created the first transgenic organism by inserting antibiotic resistance genes into the plasmid of an Escherichia coli bacterium.
In 1976 Genentech, the first genetic engineering company, was founded by Herbert Boyer and Robert Swanson and a year later the company produced a human protein (somatostatin) in E.coli.
The insulin produced by bacteria was approved for release by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1982.
The People's Republic of China was the first country to commercialise transgenic plants, introducing a virus-resistant tobacco in 1992.
In 1995, Bt Potato was approved safe by the Environmental Protection Agency, after having been approved by the FDA, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the US.
Genetic screens can be carried out to determine potential genes and further tests then used to identify the best candidates.
Misunderstanding the rigor is a cause for some of the common misconceptions of mathematics.
On the other hand, proof assistants allow verifying all details that cannot be given in a hand-written proof, and provide certainty of the correctness of long proofs such as that of the Feit–Thompson theorem.
In addition to these main concerns, there are also subdivisions dedicated to exploring links from the heart of mathematics to other fields: to logic, to set theory (foundations), to the empirical mathematics of the various sciences (applied mathematics), and more recently to the rigorous study of uncertainty.
Some disagreement about the foundations of mathematics continues to the present day.
As such, it is home to Gödel's incompleteness theorems which (informally) imply that any effective formal system that contains basic arithmetic, if sound (meaning that all theorems that can be proved are true), is necessarily incomplete (meaning that there are true theorems which cannot be proved in that system).
Modern logic is divided into recursion theory, model theory, and proof theory, and is closely linked to theoretical computer science, as well as to category theory.
The first pre-Socratic philosophers also traveled extensively to other lands, meaning that pre-Socratic thought had roots abroad as well as domestically.
The pre-Socratic philosophers shared the intuition that there was a single explanation that could explain both the plurality and the singularity of the whole – and that explanation would not be direct actions of the gods.
Many sought the material principle (arche) of things, and the method of their origin and disappearance.
In their effort to make sense of the cosmos they coined new terms and concepts such as rhythm, symmetry, analogy, deductionism, reductionism, mathematicazion of nature and others.
It could mean the beginning or origin with the undertone that there is an effect on the things to follow.
This may have been because of a lack of instruments, or because of a tendency to view the world as a unity, undeconstructable, so it would be impossible for an external eye to observe tiny fractions of nature under experimental control.
The primes have been widely studied for more than 2000 years and have led to many questions, only some of which have been answered.
Real numbers that are not rational numbers are called irrational numbers.
The computable numbers are stable for all usual arithmetic operations, including the computation of the roots of a polynomial, and thus form a real closed field that contains the real algebraic numbers.
One reason is that there is no algorithm for testing the equality of two computable numbers.
The number system that results depends on what base is used for the digits: any base is possible, but a prime number base provides the best mathematical properties.
The former gives the ordering of the set, while the latter gives its size.
In 1964, he told an interviewer that in making "this particular pork pie", he "started with a good Stetson and cut it down", stiffening the brim with sugar water.
His paternal great-grandparents were Welsh.
Lloyd began collaborating with Roach who had formed his own studio in 1913.
In 1919, she left Lloyd to pursue her dramatic aspirations.
Reportedly, the more Lloyd watched Davis the more he liked her.
Harold Lloyd would move away from tragicomic personas, and portray an everyman with unwavering confidence and optimism.
Assimilation shedding the particular qualities of a native culture for the purpose of blending in with a host culture did not work for some groups as a response to racism and discrimination, though it did for others.
They culminated in the rise of "nation-states" in which the presumptive boundaries of the nation coincided (or ideally coincided) with state boundaries.
Nation-states, however, invariably include populations who have been excluded from national life for one reason or another.
Multi-ethnic states can be the result of two opposite events, either the recent creation of state borders at variance with traditional tribal territories, or the recent immigration of ethnic minorities into a former nation-state.
States such as the United Kingdom, France and Switzerland comprised distinct ethnic groups from their formation and have likewise experienced substantial immigration, resulting in what has been termed "multicultural" societies, especially in large cities.
Though these categories are usually discussed as belonging to the public, political sphere, they are upheld within the private, family sphere to a great extent.
Protista is a polyphyletic taxon, which is less acceptable to present-day biologists than in the past.
Carl Linnaeus (1707–1778) laid the foundations for modern biological nomenclature, now regulated by the Nomenclature Codes, in 1735.
In 1937 Édouard Chatton introduced the terms "prokaryote" and "eukaryote" to differentiate these organisms.
Robert Whittaker recognized an additional kingdom for the Fungi.
The remaining two kingdoms, Protista and Monera, included unicellular and simple cellular colonies.
In other systems, such as Lynn Margulis's system of five kingdoms, the plants included just the land plants (Embryophyta), and Protoctista has a broader definition.
In most photometric systems filters (passbands) are used from which readings of magnitude of light may take account of latitude and humidity among terrestrial factors.
Broadly speaking, interstellar extinction is strongest at short wavelengths, generally observed by using techniques from spectroscopy.
The amount of extinction can be significantly higher than this in specific directions.
As a result, when computing cosmic distances it can be advantageous to move to star data from the near-infared (of which the filter or passband Ks is quite standard) where the variations and amount of extinction are significantly less, and similar ratios as to R(Ks): 0.49±0.02 and 0.528±0.015 were found respectively by independent groups.
This feature was first observed in the 1960s, but its origin is still not well understood.
In the SMC, more extreme variation is seen with no 2175 Å and very strong far-UV extinction in the star forming Bar and fairly normal ultraviolet extinction seen in the more quiescent Wing.
These segments can then be extracted through gel electrophoresis.
Once isolated the gene is ligated into a plasmid that is then inserted into a bacterium.
These include a promoter and terminator region, which initiate and end transcription.
This ability can be induced in other bacteria via stress (e.g. thermal or electric shock), which increases the cell membrane's permeability to DNA; up-taken DNA can either integrate with the genome or exist as extrachromosomal DNA.
In plants the DNA is often inserted using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, taking advantage of the Agrobacteriums T-DNA sequence that allows natural insertion of genetic material into plant cells.
In plants this is accomplished through the use of tissue culture.
Computability theory examines the limitations of various theoretical models of the computer, including the most well-known model—the Turing machine.
Consideration of the natural numbers also leads to the transfinite numbers, which formalize the concept of "infinity".
Thus one can study groups, rings, fields and other abstract systems; together such studies (for structures defined by algebraic operations) constitute the domain of abstract algebra.
Trigonometry is the branch of mathematics that deals with relationships between the sides and the angles of triangles and with the trigonometric functions.
Convex and discrete geometry were developed to solve problems in number theory and functional analysis but now are pursued with an eye on applications in optimization and computer science.
Lie groups are used to study space, structure, and change.
Systematic because they tried to universalize their findings.
The pre-Socratics were not atheists; however, they minimized the extent of the gods' involvement in natural phenomena such as thunder or totally eliminated the gods from the natural world.
The first phase of pre-Socratic philosophy, mainly the Milesians, Xenophanes, and Heraclitus, consisted of rejecting traditional cosmogony and attempting to explain nature based on empirical observations and interpretations.
The Eleatics were also monists (believing that only one thing exists and everything else is just a transformation of it).
He is considered the first western philosopher since he was the first to use reason, to use proof, and to generalize.
Thales may have been of Phoenician ancestry.
This standard basis makes the complex numbers a Cartesian plane, called the complex plane.
The complex numbers of absolute value one form the unit circle.
In domain coloring the output dimensions are represented by color and brightness, respectively.
Work on the problem of general polynomials ultimately led to the fundamental theorem of algebra, which shows that with complex numbers, a solution exists to every polynomial equation of degree one or higher.
Wessel's memoir appeared in the Proceedings of the Copenhagen Academy but went largely unnoticed.
Later classical writers on the general theory include Richard Dedekind, Otto Hölder, Felix Klein, Henri Poincaré, Hermann Schwarz, Karl Weierstrass and many others.
To create his new character Lloyd donned a pair of lensless horn-rimmed glasses but wore normal clothing; previously, he had worn a fake mustache and ill-fitting clothes as the Chaplinesque "Lonesome Luke". "
They were natural and the romance could be believable."
On Sunday, August 24, 1919, while posing for some promotional still photographs in the Los Angeles Witzel Photography Studio, he picked up what he thought was a prop bomb and lit it with a cigarette.
Lloyd was in the act of lighting a cigarette from the fuse of the bomb when it exploded, also badly burning his face and chest and injuring his eye.
Lloyd and Roach parted ways in 1924, and Lloyd became the independent producer of his own films.
All of these films were enormously successful and profitable, and Lloyd would eventually become the highest paid film performer of the 1920s.
Before Weber (1864–1920), race and ethnicity were primarily seen as two aspects of the same thing.
According to this view, the state should not acknowledge ethnic, national or racial identity but rather instead enforce political and legal equality of all individuals.
The 19th century saw the development of the political ideology of ethnic nationalism, when the concept of race was tied to nationalism, first by German theorists including Johann Gottfried von Herder.
Each promoted the pan-ethnic idea that these governments were acquiring only lands that had always been inhabited by ethnic Germans.
The colonization of Asia was largely ended in the 20th century, with national drives for independence and self-determination across the continent.
A number of European countries, including France and Switzerland, do not collect information on the ethnicity of their resident population.
Technological advances in electron microscopy allowed the separation of the Chromista from the Plantae kingdom.
Finally, some protists lacking mitochondria were discovered.
This superkingdom was opposed to the Metakaryota superkingdom, grouping together the five other eukaryotic kingdoms (Animalia, Protozoa, Fungi, Plantae and Chromista).
Cavalier-Smith no longer accepted the importance of the fundamental Eubacteria–Archaebacteria divide put forward by Woese and others and supported by recent research.
Cavalier-Smith does not accept the requirement for taxa to be monophyletic ("holophyletic" in his terminology) to be valid.
The advances of phylogenetic studies allowed Cavalier-Smith to realize that all the phyla thought to be archezoans (i.e. primitively amitochondriate eukaryotes) had in fact secondarily lost their mitochondria, typically by transforming them into new organelles: Hydrogenosomes.
Finding extinction curves in both the LMC and SMC which are similar to those found in the Milky Way and finding extinction curves in the Milky Way that look more like those found in the LMC2 supershell of the LMC and in the SMC Bar has given rise to a new interpretation.
This extinction has three main components: Rayleigh scattering by air molecules, scattering by particulates, and molecular absorption.
The amount of such extinction is lowest at the observer's zenith and highest near the horizon.
The Drake equation speculates about the existence of sapient life elsewhere in the universe.
This encompasses a search for current and historic extraterrestrial life, and a narrower search for extraterrestrial intelligent life.
Over the years, science fiction communicated scientific ideas, imagined a wide range of possibilities, and influenced public interest in and perspectives of extraterrestrial life.
Selectable markers are used to easily differentiate transformed from untransformed cells.
These tests can also confirm the chromosomal location and copy number of the inserted gene.
The new genetic material can be inserted randomly within the host genome or targeted to a specific location.
The frequency of gene targeting can be greatly enhanced through genome editing.
TALEN and CRISPR are the two most commonly used and each has its own advantages.
Most commercialised GMOs are insect resistant or herbicide tolerant crop plants.
Functions arise here as a central concept describing a changing quantity.
One of many applications of functional analysis is quantum mechanics.
Statisticians (working as part of a research project) "create data that makes sense" with random sampling and with randomized experiments; the design of a statistical sample or experiment specifies the analysis of the data (before the data becomes available).
Numerical analysis studies methods for problems in analysis using functional analysis and approximation theory; numerical analysis includes the study of approximation and discretisation broadly with special concern for rounding errors.
The Chern Medal was introduced in 2010 to recognize lifetime achievement.
This list achieved great celebrity among mathematicians, and at least nine of the problems have now been solved.
Thales, though, advanced geometry with his abstract deductive reasoning reaching universal generalizations.
Thales visited Sardis, as many Greeks then, where astronomical records were kept and used astronomical observations for practical matters (oil harvesting).
He attributed the origin of the world to an element instead of a divine being.
He was a member of the elite of Miletus, wealthy and a statesman.
In response to Thales, he postulated as the first principle an undefined, unlimited substance without qualities (apeiron), out of which the primary opposites, hot and cold, moist and dry, became differentiated.
He is also known for speculating on the origin of mankind.
The use of imaginary numbers was not widely accepted until the work of Leonhard Euler (1707–1783) and Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855).
The integers form the smallest group and the smallest ring containing the natural numbers.
It is the prototype of all objects of such algebraic structure.
Fixed length integer approximation data types (or subsets) are denoted int or Integer in several programming languages (such as Algol68, C, Java, Delphi, etc.).
These are provable properties of rational numbers and positional number systems, and are not used as definitions in mathematics.
Since the triangle is isosceles, a = b).
However, his go-getting screen character was out of touch with Great Depression movie audiences of the 1930s.
On March 23, 1937, Lloyd sold the land of his studio, Harold Lloyd Motion Picture Company, to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
He returned for an additional starring appearance in The Sin of Harold Diddlebock, an ill-fated homage to Lloyd's career, directed by Preston Sturges and financed by Howard Hughes.
Lloyd and Sturges had different conceptions of the material and fought frequently during the shoot; Lloyd was particularly concerned that while Sturges had spent three to four months on the script of the first third of the film, "the last two-thirds of it he wrote in a week or less".
Some saw The Old Gold Comedy Theater as being a lighter version of Lux Radio Theater, and it featured some of the best-known film and radio personalities of the day, including Fred Allen, June Allyson, Lucille Ball, Ralph Bellamy, Linda Darnell, Susan Hayward, Herbert Marshall, Dick Powell, Edward G. Robinson, Jane Wyman, and Alan Young.
Many years later, acetate discs of 29 of the shows were discovered in Lloyd's home, and they now circulate among old-time radio collectors.
During European colonization, Europeans arrived in North America.
Digital ethnography allows for a lot more opportunities to look at different cultures and societies.
Relational Ethnography articulates studying fields rather than places or processes rather than processed people.
The goal is to collect data in such a way that the researcher imposes a minimal amount of personal bias in the data.
Interviews are often taped and later transcribed, allowing the interview to proceed unimpaired of note-taking, but with all information available later for full analysis.
Despite these attempts of reflexivity, no researcher can be totally unbiased.
Based on such RNA studies, Carl Woese thought life could be divided into three large divisions and referred to them as the "three primary kingdom" model or "urkingdom" model.
Woese divided the prokaryotes (previously classified as the Kingdom Monera) into two groups, called Eubacteria and Archaebacteria, stressing that there was as much genetic difference between these two groups as between either of them and all eukaryotes.
They held that only monophyletic groups should be accepted as formal ranks in a classification and that – while this approach had been impractical previously (necessitating "literally dozens of eukaryotic 'kingdoms) – it had now become possible to divide the eukaryotes into "just a few major groups that are probably all monophyletic".
It divided the eukaryotes into the same six "supergroups".
Plants are thought to be more distantly related to animals and fungi.
The ten arguments against include the fact that they are obligate intracellular parasites that lack metabolism and are not capable of replication outside of a host cell.
According to this argument, made by scientists such as Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking, as well as notable personalities such as Winston Churchill, it would be improbable for life not to exist somewhere other than Earth.
Life may have emerged independently at many places throughout the universe.
At each level of the organism there will be mechanisms in place to eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation, and keep the organism functioning.
Life based on ammonia (rather than water) has been suggested as an alternative, though this solvent appears less suitable than water.
About 95% of living matter is built upon only six elements: carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur.
The carbon atom has the unique ability to make four strong chemical bonds with other atoms, including other carbon atoms.
Mouse hybridomas, cells fused together to create monoclonal antibodies, have been adapted through genetic engineering to create human monoclonal antibodies.
Genetic engineering is also used to create animal models of human diseases.
Potential cures can be tested against these mouse models.
In 2015 a virus was used to insert a healthy gene into the skin cells of a boy suffering from a rare skin disease, epidermolysis bullosa, in order to grow, and then graft healthy skin onto 80 percent of the boy's body which was affected by the illness.
There are also concerns that the technology could be used not just for treatment, but for enhancement, modification or alteration of a human beings' appearance, adaptability, intelligence, character or behavior.
He said that twin girls, Lulu and Nana, had been born a few weeks earlier.
The value of Pi was first calculated by him.
It was the Pythagoreans who coined the term "mathematics", and with whom the study of mathematics for its own sake begins.
Because of a political dispute, the Christian community in Alexandria punished her, presuming she was involved, by stripping her naked and scraping off her skin with clamshells (some say roofing tiles).
Funding for translation of scientific texts in other languages was ongoing throughout the reign of certain caliphs, and it turned out that certain scholars became experts in the works they translated and in turn received further support for continuing to develop certain sciences.
A notable feature of many scholars working under Muslim rule in medieval times is that they were often polymaths.
During this period of transition from a mainly feudal and ecclesiastical culture to a predominantly secular one, many notable mathematicians had other occupations: Luca Pacioli (founder of accounting); Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia (notable engineer and bookkeeper); Gerolamo Cardano (earliest founder of probability and binomial expansion); Robert Recorde (physician) and François Viète (lawyer).
He also wrote a book on nature in prose.
He was a well-traveled poet whose primary interests were theology and epistemology.
He famously said that if oxen, horses, or lions could draw, they would draw their gods as oxen, horses, or lions.
Xenophanes also offered naturalistic explanations for phenomena such as the sun, the rainbow and St. Elmo's fire.
While Xenophanes was a pessimist about the capability of humans to reach knowledge, he also believed in gradual progress through critical thinking.
Heraclitus posited that all things in nature are in a state of perpetual flux.
Since c is even, dividing c by 2 yields an integer.
Substituting 4y2 for c2 in the first equation (c2 = 2b2) gives us 4y2= 2b2.
Since b2 is even, b must be even.
However this contradicts the assumption that they have no common factors.
Hippasus, however, was not lauded for his efforts: according to one legend, he made his discovery while out at sea, and was subsequently thrown overboard by his fellow Pythagoreans “…for having produced an element in the universe which denied the…doctrine that all phenomena in the universe can be reduced to whole numbers and their ratios.”
For example, consider a line segment: this segment can be split in half, that half split in half, the half of the half in half, and so on.
He was a Past Potentate of Al-Malaikah Shrine in Los Angeles, and was eventually selected as Imperial Potentate of the Shriners of North America for the year 1949–50.
Lloyd was invested with the Rank and Decoration of Knight Commander Court of Honour in 1955 and coroneted an Inspector General Honorary, 33°, in 1965.
It said, as first step, Lloyd will write the story of his life for Simon and Schuster.
He became known for his nude photographs of models, such as Bettie Page and stripper Dixie Evans, for a number of men's magazines.
We never intended them to be played with pianos."
They've come close to it, but they haven't come all the way up".
These informants are typically asked to identify other informants who represent the community, often using snowball or chain sampling.
2010) examine the ontological and epistemological presuppositions underlying ethnography.
Critical theory researchers address "issues of power within the researcher-researched relationships and the links between knowledge and power."
An image can be contained within the physical world through a particular individual's perspective, primarily based on that individual's past experiences.
The idea of an image relies on the imagination and has been seen to be utilized by children in a very spontaneous and natural manner.
Cultural and social anthropologists today place a high value on doing ethnographic research.
The first two are all prokaryotic microorganisms, or mostly single-celled organisms whose cells have a distorted or non-membrane bound nucleus.
Halophiles, organisms that thrive in highly salty environments, and hyperthermophiles, organisms that thrive in extremely hot environments, are examples of Archaea.
Cyanobacteria and mycoplasmas are two examples of bacteria.
Evolution is change in the heritable characteristics of biological populations over successive generations.
Evolution occurs when evolutionary processes such as natural selection (including sexual selection) and genetic drift act on this variation, resulting in certain characteristics becoming more common or rare within a population.
The scientific theory of evolution by natural selection was conceived independently by Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in the mid-19th century and was set out in detail in Darwin's book On the Origin of Species.
According to NASA's 2015 Astrobiology Strategy, "Life on other worlds is most likely to include microbes, and any complex living system elsewhere is likely to have arisen from and be founded upon microbial life.
Rick Colwell, a member of the Deep Carbon Observatory team from Oregon State University, told the BBC: "I think it’s probably reasonable to assume that the subsurface of other planets and their moons are habitable, especially since we’ve seen here on Earth that organisms can function far away from sunlight using the energy provided directly from the rocks deep underground".
The panspermia hypothesis proposes that life elsewhere in the Solar System may have a common origin.
In the 19th century it was again revived in modern form by several scientists, including Jöns Jacob Berzelius (1834), Kelvin (1871), Hermann von Helmholtz (1879) and, somewhat later, by Svante Arrhenius (1903).
One of the early scientific inquires into the topic appeared in an 1878 Scientific American article entitled "Is the Moon Inhabited?"
Warm and pressurized regions in the Moon's interior might still contain liquid water.
Currently, germline modification is banned in 40 countries.
Bacteria are cheap, easy to grow, clonal, multiply quickly, relatively easy to transform and can be stored at -80 °C almost indefinitely.
This could be the effect on the phenotype of the organism, where the gene is expressed or what other genes it interacts with.
In a simple knockout a copy of the desired gene has been altered to make it non-functional.
This allows the experimenter to analyse the defects caused by this mutation and thereby determine the role of particular genes.
The simplest method, and the first to be used, is "alanine scanning", where every position in turn is mutated to the unreactive amino acid alanine.
British universities of this period adopted some approaches familiar to the Italian and German universities, but as they already enjoyed substantial freedoms and autonomy the changes there had begun with the Age of Enlightenment, the same influences that inspired Humboldt.
Students could conduct research in seminars or laboratories and began to produce doctoral theses with more scientific content.
Mathematicians and applied mathematicians are considered to be two of the STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) careers.
Actuaries also address financial questions, including those involving the level of pension contributions required to produce a certain retirement income and the way in which a company should invest resources to maximize its return on investments in light of potential risk.
The hieroglyphic system for Egyptian numerals, like the later Roman numerals, descended from tally marks used for counting.
Early number systems that included positional notation were not decimal, including the sexagesimal (base 60) system for Babylonian numerals, and the vigesimal (base 20) system that defined Maya numerals.
Fire becomes water and earth and vice versa.
There, Heraclitus claims we can not step into the same river twice, a position summarized with the slogan ta panta rhei (everything flows).
Another key concept of Heraclitus is that opposites somehow mirror each other, a doctrine called unity of opposites.
Heraclitus' doctrine on the unity of opposites suggests that unity of the world and its various parts is kept through the tension produced by the opposites.
A fundamental idea in Heraclitus is logos, an ancient Greek word with a variety of meanings; Heraclitus might have used a different meaning of the word with each usage in his book.
Some decades later he had to flee Croton and relocate to Metapontum.
This is just what Zeno sought to prove.
In the minds of the Greeks, disproving the validity of one view did not necessarily prove the validity of another, and therefore further investigation had to occur.
A magnitude “...was not a number but stood for entities such as line segments, angles, areas, volumes, and time which could vary, as we would say, continuously.
Because no quantitative values were assigned to magnitudes, Eudoxus was then able to account for both commensurable and incommensurable ratios by defining a ratio in terms of its magnitude, and proportion as an equality between two ratios.
This incommensurability is dealt with in Euclid's Elements, Book X, Proposition 9.
In fact, in many cases algebraic conceptions were reformulated into geometric terms.
In the early 1960s, Lloyd produced two compilation films, featuring scenes from his old comedies, Harold Lloyd's World of Comedy and The Funny Side of Life.
Time-Life released several of the feature films more or less intact, also using some of Scharf's scores which had been commissioned by Lloyd.
The Brownlow and Gill documentary was shown as part of the PBS series American Masters, and created a renewed interest in Lloyd's work in the United States, but the films were largely unavailable.
They also adopted Gloria Freeman (1924–1986) in September 1930, whom they renamed Marjorie Elizabeth Lloyd but was known as "Peggy" for most of her life.
Davis died from a heart attack in 1969, two years before Lloyd's death.
In 1925, at the height of his movie career, Lloyd entered into Freemasonry at the Alexander Hamilton Lodge No.
Ethnographies are also sometimes called "case studies."
The fieldwork usually involves spending a year or more in another society, living with the local people and learning about their ways of life.
Benedict's experiences with the Southwest Zuni pueblo is to be considered the basis of her formative fieldwork.
A typical ethnography attempts to be holistic and typically follows an outline to include a brief history of the culture in question, an analysis of the physical geography or terrain inhabited by the people under study, including climate, and often including what biological anthropologists call habitat.
Kinship and social structure (including age grading, peer groups, gender, voluntary associations, clans, moieties, and so forth, if they exist) are typically included.
Rites, rituals, and other evidence of religion have long been an interest and are sometimes central to ethnographies, especially when conducted in public where visiting anthropologists can see them.
Thus, in successive generations members of a population are more likely to be replaced by the progenies of parents with favourable characteristics that have enabled them to survive and reproduce in their respective environments.
The fossil record includes a progression from early biogenic graphite, to microbial mat fossils, to fossilised multicellular organisms.
It sought explanations of natural phenomena in terms of physical laws that were the same for all visible things and that did not require the existence of any fixed natural categories or divine cosmic order.
The biological classification introduced by Carl Linnaeus in 1735 explicitly recognised the hierarchical nature of species relationships, but still viewed species as fixed according to a divine plan.
These ideas were condemned by established naturalists as speculation lacking empirical support.
Partly influenced by An Essay on the Principle of Population (1798) by Thomas Robert Malthus, Darwin noted that population growth would lead to a "struggle for existence" in which favourable variations prevailed as others perished.
There is evidence that Mars had a warmer and wetter past: dried-up riverbeds, polar ice caps, volcanoes, and minerals that form in the presence of water have all been found.
The vapor could have been produced by ice volcanoes or by ice near the surface sublimating (transforming from solid to gas).
It is also possible that Europa could support aerobic macrofauna using oxygen created by cosmic rays impacting its surface ice.
On 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of "clay-like minerals" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa.
Some claim to have identified evidence that microbial life has existed on Mars.
In 1996, a controversial report stated that structures resembling nanobacteria were discovered in a meteorite, ALH84001, formed of rock ejected from Mars.
The process is much the same as that in knockout engineering, except that the construct is designed to increase the function of the gene, usually by providing extra copies of the gene or inducing synthesis of the protein more frequently.
One way to do this is to replace the wild-type gene with a 'fusion' gene, which is a juxtaposition of the wild-type gene with a reporting element such as green fluorescent protein (GFP) that will allow easy visualisation of the products of the genetic modification.
Expression studies aim to discover where and when specific proteins are produced.
Some genes do not work well in bacteria, so yeast, insect cells or mammalians cells can also be used.
Certain genetically modified microbes can also be used in biomining and bioremediation, due to their ability to extract heavy metals from their environment and incorporate them into compounds that are more easily recoverable.
Fungal and virus resistant crops have also been developed or are in development.
Prior to the works of Euclid around 300 BC, Greek studies in mathematics overlapped with philosophical and mystical beliefs.
The ancient Greeks lacked a symbol for zero until the Hellenistic period, and they used three separate sets of symbols as digits: one set for the units place, one for the tens place, and one for the hundreds.
Their long division algorithm was the same, and the digit-by-digit square root algorithm, popularly used as recently as the 20th century, was known to Archimedes (who may have invented it).
The ancient Chinese had advanced arithmetic studies dating from the Shang Dynasty and continuing through the Tang Dynasty, from basic numbers to advanced algebra.
For the hundreds place, they then reused the symbols for the units place, and so on.
The ancient Chinese were the first to meaningfully discover, understand, and apply negative numbers.
They advanced his ideas, reaching the claim that everything consists of numbers, the universe is made by numbers and everything is a reflection of analogies and geometrical relations.
Their way of life was ascetic, restraining themselves from various pleasures and food.
Other pre-Socratic philosophers mocked Pythagoras for his belief in reincarnation.
Pythagoreanism influenced later Christian currents as Neoplatonism, and its pedagogical methods were adapted by Plato.
According to Aristotle and Diogenes Laertius, Xenophanes was Parmenides' teacher, and it is debated whether Xenophanes should also be considered an Eleatic.
He was the first to deduce that the earth is spherical.
The realization that some basic conception within the existing theory was at odds with reality necessitated a complete and thorough investigation of the axioms and assumptions that underlie that theory.
However, historian Carl Benjamin Boyer writes that "such claims are not well substantiated and unlikely to be true".
Mathematicians like Brahmagupta (in 628 AD) and Bhāskara I (in 629 AD) made contributions in this area as did other mathematicians who followed.
The year 1872 saw the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil Ernst Kossak), Eduard Heine (Crelle's Journal, 74), Georg Cantor (Annalen, 5), and Richard Dedekind.
Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of all rational numbers, separating them into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
Dirichlet also added to the general theory, as have numerous contributors to the applications of the subject.
In 1926, he became a 32° Scottish Rite Mason in the Valley of Los Angeles, California.
A portion of Lloyd's personal inventory of his silent films (then estimated to be worth $2 million) was destroyed in August 1943 when his film vault caught fire.
The fire spared the main house and outbuildings.
Lloyd was honored in 1960 for his contribution to motion pictures with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 1503 Vine Street.
The second citation was a snub to Chaplin, who at that point had fallen foul of McCarthyism and had his entry visa to the United States revoked.
Gladys Marie Smith (April 8, 1892 – May 29, 1979), known professionally as Mary Pickford, was a Canadian-American film actress and producer with a career that spanned five decades.
For example, if within a group of people, winking was a communicative gesture, he sought to first determine what kinds of things a wink might mean (it might mean several things).
Geertz, while still following something of a traditional ethnographic outline, moved outside that outline to talk about "webs" instead of "outlines" of culture.
Writing Culture helped bring changes to both anthropology and ethnography often described in terms of being 'postmodern,' 'reflexive,' 'literary,' 'deconstructive,' or 'poststructural' in nature, in that the text helped to highlight the various epistemic and political predicaments that many practitioners saw as plaguing ethnographic representations and practices.
In regards to this last point, Writing Culture became a focal point for looking at how ethnographers could describe different cultures and societies without denying the subjectivity of those individuals and groups being studied while simultaneously doing so without laying claim to absolute knowledge and objective authority.
As the purpose of ethnography is to describe and interpret the shared and learned patterns of values, behaviors, beliefs, and language of a culture-sharing group, Harris, (1968), also Agar (1980) note that ethnography is both a process and an outcome of the research.
Sociologist Sam Ladner argues in her book, that understanding consumers and their desires requires a shift in "standpoint," one that only ethnography provides.
Darwin developed his theory of "natural selection" from 1838 onwards and was writing up his "big book" on the subject when Alfred Russel Wallace sent him a version of virtually the same theory in 1858.
Towards this end, Darwin developed his provisional theory of pangenesis.
To explain how new variants originate, de Vries developed a mutation theory that led to a temporary rift between those who accepted Darwinian evolution and biometricians who allied with de Vries.
The publication of the structure of DNA by James Watson and Francis Crick with contribution of Rosalind Franklin in 1953 demonstrated a physical mechanism for inheritance.
In 1973, evolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky penned that "nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution," because it has brought to light the relations of what first seemed disjointed facts in natural history into a coherent explanatory body of knowledge that describes and predicts many observable facts about life on this planet.
The complete set of observable traits that make up the structure and behaviour of an organism is called its phenotype.
NASA officials soon distanced NASA from the scientists' claims, and Stoker herself backed off from her initial assertions.
It is designed to assess the past and present habitability on Mars using a variety of scientific instruments.
However, significant advances in the ability to find and resolve light from smaller rocky worlds near their stars are necessary before such spectroscopic methods can be used to analyze extrasolar planets.
In August 2011, findings by NASA, based on studies of meteorites found on Earth, suggest DNA and RNA components (adenine, guanine and related organic molecules), building blocks for life as we know it, may be formed extraterrestrially in outer space.
In August 2012, and in a world first, astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule, glycolaldehyde, in a distant star system.
The Kepler space telescope has also detected a few thousand candidate planets, of which about 11% may be false positives.
In 2016 Salmon have been genetically modified with growth hormones to reach normal adult size much faster.
Soybeans and canola have been genetically modified to produce more healthy oils.
Gene transfer through viral vectors has been proposed as a means of controlling invasive species as well as vaccinating threatened fauna from disease.
Applications of genetic engineering in conservation are thus far mostly theoretical and have yet to be put into practice.
The Asilomar meeting recommended a set of voluntary guidelines regarding the use of recombinant technology.
One hundred and fifty-seven countries are members of the Protocol and many use it as a reference point for their own regulations.
His contemporary, the Syriac bishop Severus Sebokht (650 AD) said, "Indians possess a method of calculation that no word can praise enough.
The Arabs also learned this new method and called it hesab.
The flourishing of algebra in the medieval Islamic world, and also in Renaissance Europe, was an outgrowth of the enormous simplification of computation through decimal notation.
Arithmetic expressions must be evaluated according to the intended sequence of operations.
For example, digital computers can reuse existing adding-circuitry and save additional circuits for implementing a subtraction, by employing the method of two's complement for representing the additive inverses, which is extremely easy to implement in hardware (negation).
Multiplication also combines two numbers into a single number, the product.
Parmenides wrote a hard to interpret poem, named On Nature or On What-is, that substantially influenced later Greek philosophy.
The poem consists of three parts, the proem (i.e., preface), the Way of Truth and the Way of Opinion.
The Way of Truth was then, and is still today, considered of much more importance.
Hence, all the things that we think to be true, even ourselves, are false representations.
The goddess teaches Kouros to use his reasoning to understand whether various claims are true or false, discarding senses as fallacious.
Zeno and Melissus continued Parmenides' thought on cosmology.
This asserts that every integer has a unique factorization into primes.
To show this, suppose we divide integers n by m (where m is nonzero).
If 0 never occurs, then the algorithm can run at most m − 1 steps without using any remainder more than once.
In mathematics, the natural numbers are those used for counting (as in "there are six coins on the table") and ordering (as in "this is the third largest city in the country").
These chains of extensions make the natural numbers canonically embedded (identified) in the other number systems.
The first major advance in abstraction was the use of numerals to represent numbers.
