Keaton had prints of the features Three Ages, Sherlock Jr., Steamboat Bill, Jr., and College (missing one reel), and the shorts "The Boat" and "My Wife's Relations", which Keaton and Rohauer then transferred to Cellulose acetate film from deteriorating nitrate film stock.
In a series of silent television commercials for Simon Pure Beer made in 1962 by Jim Mohr in Buffalo, New York, Keaton revisited some of the gags from his silent film days.
In December 1958, Keaton was a guest star in the episode "A Very Merry Christmas" of The Donna Reed Show on ABC.
In 1960, he returned to MGM for the final time, playing a lion tamer in a 1960 adaptation of Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
He worked with comedian Ernie Kovacs on a television pilot tentatively titled "Medicine Man," shooting scenes for it on January 12, 1962—the day before Kovacs died in a car crash. "
He traveled from one end of Canada to the other on a motorized handcar, wearing his traditional pork pie hat and performing gags similar to those in films that he made 50 years before.
This is in the context of debates over multiculturalism in countries, such as the United States and Canada, which have large immigrant populations from many different cultures, and post-colonialism in the Caribbean and South Asia.
Third, group formation resulted from the drive to monopolize power and status.
Barth went further than Weber in stressing the constructed nature of ethnicity.
He wanted to part with anthropological notions of cultures as bounded entities, and ethnicity as primordialist bonds, replacing it with a focus on the interface between groups.
He agrees with Joan Vincent's observation that (in Cohen's paraphrase) "Ethnicity... can be narrowed or broadened in boundary terms in relation to the specific needs of political mobilization.
Ethnic groups came to be defined as social rather than biological entities.
He established the idea of a taxonomic hierarchy of classification based upon observable characteristics and intended to reflect natural relationships.
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, in his 1809 Zoological Philosophy, described the transmutation of species, proposing that a species could change over time, in a radical departure from Aristotelian thinking.
Genus (plural genera) is a taxonomic rank used in the biological classification of living and fossil organisms as well as viruses.
E.g. Panthera leo (lion) and Panthera onca (jaguar) are two species within the genus Panthera.
A botanical example would be Hibiscus arnottianus, a particular species of the genus Hibiscus native to Hawaii.
Available names are those published in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature and not otherwise suppressed by subsequent decisions of the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN); the earliest such name for any taxon (for example, a genus) should then be selected as the "valid" (i.e., current or accepted) name for the taxon in question.
The cosmic dust permeating the universe contains complex organic compounds ("amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure") that could be created naturally, and rapidly, by stars.
PAHs seem to have been formed shortly after the Big Bang, are widespread throughout the universe, and are associated with new stars and exoplanets.
Experimental astroecology investigates resources in planetary soils, using actual space materials in meteorites.
On the largest scale, cosmoecology concerns life in the universe over cosmological times.
Specializations include cosmochemistry, biochemistry and organic geochemistry.
Some regions on Earth, such as the Pilbara in Western Australia and the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, are also considered to be geological analogs to regions of Mars, and as such, might be able to provide clues on how to search for past life on Mars.
Other environmental and agronomic concerns include a decrease in biodiversity, an increase in secondary pests (non-targeted pests) and evolution of resistant insect pests.
The impact of Bt crops on beneficial non-target organisms became a public issue after a 1999 paper suggested they could be toxic to monarch butterflies.
With the ability to genetically engineer humans now possible there are ethical concerns over how far this technology should go, or if it should be used at all.
October 2006 the rigor of the regulatory process, consolidation of control of the food supply in companies that make and sell GMOs, exaggeration of the benefits of genetic modification, or concerns over the use of herbicides with glyphosate.
GMOs arrived on the scene as the public confidence in food safety, attributed to recent food scares such as Bovine spongiform encephalopathy and other scandals involving government regulation of products in Europe, was low.
Genetic engineering, also called genetic modification or genetic manipulation, is the direct manipulation of an organism's genes using biotechnology.
In particular, mathēmatikḗ tékhnē meant "the mathematical art."
In English, the noun mathematics takes a singular verb.
However, Aristotle also noted a focus on quantity alone may not distinguish mathematics from sciences like physics; in his view, abstraction and studying quantity as a property "separable in thought" from real instances set mathematics apart.
A peculiarity of intuitionism is that it rejects some mathematical ideas considered valid according to other definitions.
Haskell Curry defined mathematics simply as "the science of formal systems".
Popper also noted that "I shall certainly admit a system as empirical or scientific only if it is capable of being tested by experience."
The Eleatic school (Parmenides, Zeno of Elea, and Melissus) followed in the 5th century BCE.
Anaxagoras and Empedocles offered a pluralistic account of how the universe was created.
It was first used by the German philosopher J.A. Eberhard as "vorsokratische Philosophie''' in the late 18th century.
The term comes with drawbacks, as several of the pre-Socratics were highly interested in ethics and how to live the best life.
According to James Warren, the distinction between the pre-Socratic philosophers and philosophers of the classical era is demarcated not so much by Socrates, but by geography and what texts survived.
Scholar André Laks distinguishes two traditions of separating pre-Socratics from Socratics, dating back to the classical era and running through current times.
This alternative notation is called postfix notation.
The category of sets with functions as morphisms is the prototypical category.
For example, the decibel (dB) is a unit used to express ratio as logarithms, mostly for signal power and amplitude (of which sound pressure is a common example).
They help to describe frequency ratios of musical intervals, appear in formulas counting prime numbers or approximating factorials, inform some models in psychophysics, and can aid in forensic accounting.
The next integer is 4, which is the number of digits of 1430.
Prior to Napier's invention, there had been other techniques of similar scopes, such as the prosthaphaeresis or the use of tables of progressions, extensively developed by Jost Bürgi around 1600.
Also in 1965, he traveled to Italy to play a role in Due Marines e un Generale, co-starring Franco Franchi and Ciccio Ingrassia.
One of his most biting parodies is The Frozen North (1922), a satirical take on William S. Hart's Western melodramas, like Hell's Hinges (1916) and The Narrow Trail (1917).
Audiences of the 1920s recognized the parody and thought the film hysterically funny.
The short also featured the impression of a performing monkey which was likely derived from a co-biller's act (called Peter the Great).
Note: Source misspells Keaton's frequent appellation as "Great Stoneface".
Keaton dated actress Dorothy Sebastian beginning in the 1920s and Kathleen Key in the early 1930s.
Examples of various approaches are primordialism, essentialism, perennialism, constructivism, modernism, and instrumentalism.
"Essentialist primordialism" further holds that ethnicity is an a priori fact of human existence, that ethnicity precedes any human social interaction and that it is unchanged by it.
"Kinship primordialism" holds that ethnic communities are extensions of kinship units, basically being derived by kinship or clan ties where the choices of cultural signs (language, religion, traditions) are made exactly to show this biological affinity.
"Geertz's primordialism", notably espoused by anthropologist Clifford Geertz, argues that humans in general attribute an overwhelming power to primordial human "givens" such as blood ties, language, territory, and cultural differences.
Smith (1999) distinguishes two variants: "continuous perennialism", which claims that particular nations have existed for very long periods, and "recurrent perennialism", which focuses on the emergence, dissolution and reappearance of nations as a recurring aspect of human history.
This view holds that the concept of ethnicity is a tool used by political groups to manipulate resources such as wealth, power, territory or status in their particular groups' interests.
In botany, similar concepts exist but with different labels.
However, many names have been assigned (usually unintentionally) to two or more different genera.
A name that means two different things is a homonym.
However, a genus in one kingdom is allowed to bear a scientific name that is in use as a generic name (or the name of a taxon in another rank) in a kingdom that is governed by a different nomenclature code.
For instance, among (non-avian) reptiles, which have about 1180 genera, the most (>300) have only 1 species, ~360 have between 2 and 4 species, 260 have 5–10 species, ~200 have 11–50 species, and only 27 genera have more than 50 species.
Which species are assigned to a genus is somewhat arbitrary.
Indeed, it seems likely that the basic building blocks of life anywhere will be similar to those on Earth, in the generality if not in the detail.
Only two of the natural atoms, carbon and silicon, are known to serve as the backbones of molecules sufficiently large to carry biological information.
The four most likely candidates for life in the Solar System are the planet Mars, the Jovian moon Europa, and Saturn's moons Titan and Enceladus.
At the Martian low temperatures and low pressure, liquid water is likely to be highly saline.
On 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of "clay-like minerals" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa.
Some scientists think it possible that these liquid hydrocarbons might take the place of water in living cells different from those on Earth.
A construct is usually created and used to insert this DNA into the host organism.
The new DNA can be inserted randomly, or targeted to a specific part of the genome.
Rudolf Jaenisch created the first GM animal when he inserted foreign DNA into a mouse in 1974.
Genetically modified food has been sold since 1994, with the release of the Flavr Savr tomato.
In 2016 salmon modified with a growth hormone were sold.
By knocking out genes responsible for certain conditions it is possible to create animal model organisms of human diseases.
Intuition and experimentation also play a role in the formulation of conjectures in both mathematics and the (other) sciences.
For example, the physicist Richard Feynman invented the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics using a combination of mathematical reasoning and physical insight, and today's string theory, a still-developing scientific theory which attempts to unify the four fundamental forces of nature, continues to inspire new mathematics.
A distinction is often made between pure mathematics and applied mathematics.
As in most areas of study, the explosion of knowledge in the scientific age has led to specialization: there are now hundreds of specialized areas in mathematics and the latest Mathematics Subject Classification runs to 46 pages.
Many mathematicians talk about the elegance of mathematics, its intrinsic aesthetics and inner beauty.
G. H. Hardy in A Mathematician's Apology expressed the belief that these aesthetic considerations are, in themselves, sufficient to justify the study of pure mathematics.
Many of the works are titled Peri Physeos, or On Nature, a title probably attributed later by other authors.
Adding more difficulty to their interpretation is the obscure language they used.
Theophrastus, Aristotle's successor, wrote an encyclopedic book Opinion of the Physicists that was the standard work about the pre-Socratics in ancient times.
Scholars now use this book to reference the fragments using a coding scheme called Diels–Kranz numbering.
After that is a code regarding whether the fragment is a testimonia, coded as "A", or "B" if is a direct quote from the philosopher.
The pre-Socratic era lasted about two centuries, during which the expanding Persian Achaemenid Empire was stretching to the west, while the Greeks were advancing in trade and sea routes, reaching Cyprus and Syria.
Speaking of a number as requiring so many figures is a rough allusion to common logarithm, and was referred to by Archimedes as the “order of a number”.
Such methods are called prosthaphaeresis.
For example, each chamber of the shell of a nautilus is an approximate copy of the next one, scaled by a constant factor.
Logarithms are also linked to self-similarity.
It is used to quantify the loss of voltage levels in transmitting electrical signals, to describe power levels of sounds in acoustics, and the absorbance of light in the fields of spectrometry and optics.
Vinegar typically has a pH of about 3.
He escaped a straitjacket with tricks learned from Harry Houdini.
She filed for divorce in 1935 after finding Keaton with Leah Clampitt Sewell, the wife of millionaire Barton Sewell, in a hotel in Santa Barbara.
He stopped drinking for five years.
The marriage lasted until his death.
Confined to a hospital during his final days, Keaton was restless and paced the room endlessly, desiring to return home.
The screenplay, by Sidney Sheldon, who also directed the film, was loosely based on Keaton's life but contained many factual errors and merged his three wives into one character.
"Instrumentalist perennialism", while seeing ethnicity primarily as a versatile tool that identified different ethnics groups and limits through time, explains ethnicity as a mechanism of social stratification, meaning that ethnicity is the basis for a hierarchical arrangement of individuals.
According to Donald Noel, ethnic stratification will emerge only when specific ethnic groups are brought into contact with one another, and only when those groups are characterized by a high degree of ethnocentrism, competition, and differential power.
Continuing with Noel's theory, some degree of differential power must be present for the emergence of ethnic stratification.
The different ethnic groups must be competing for some common goal, such as power or influence, or a material interest, such as wealth or territory.
It holds that ethnic groups are only products of human social interaction, maintained only in so far as they are maintained as valid social constructs in societies.
They hold that prior to this ethnic homogeneity was not considered an ideal or necessary factor in the forging of large-scale societies.
What belongs to a family—or if a described family should be recognized at all—are proposed and determined by practicing taxonomists.
Often there is no exact agreement, with different taxonomists each taking a different position.
Michael Novacek (1986) inserted them at the same position.
There are no objective rules for describing a class, but for well-known animals there is likely to be consensus.
In botany, classes are now rarely discussed.
Informally, phyla can be thought of as groupings of organisms based on general specialization of body plan.
There are no known abiotic processes on the planet that could cause its presence.
Yamato 000593, the second largest meteorite from Mars, was found on Earth in 2000.
On 5 March 2011, Richard B. Hoover, a scientist with the Marshall Space Flight Center, speculated on the finding of alleged microfossils similar to cyanobacteria in CI1 carbonaceous meteorites in the fringe Journal of Cosmology, a story widely reported on by mainstream media.
Evidence of perchlorates have been found throughout the solar system, and specifically on Mars.
Improved detection methods and increased observation time will undoubtedly discover more planetary systems, and possibly some more like ours.
The aim is to detect those organisms that are able to survive space travel conditions and to maintain the proliferating capacity.
The rise of commercialised genetically modified crops has provided economic benefit to farmers in many different countries, but has also been the source of most of the controversy surrounding the technology.
Gene flow, impact on non-target organisms, control of the food supply and intellectual property rights have also been raised as potential issues.
This is much faster, can be used to insert any genes from any organism (even ones from different domains) and prevents other undesirable genes from also being added.
Drugs, vaccines and other products have been harvested from organisms engineered to produce them.
Synthetic biology is an emerging discipline that takes genetic engineering a step further by introducing artificially synthesised material into an organism.
If genetic material from another species is added to the host, the resulting organism is called transgenic.
A theorem expressed as a characterization of the object by these features is the prize.
Euler (1707–1783) was responsible for many of the notations in use today.
Unlike natural language, where people can often equate a word (such as cow) with the physical object it corresponds to, mathematical symbols are abstract, lacking any physical analog.
Mathematical language also includes many technical terms such as homeomorphism and integrable that have no meaning outside of mathematics.
Mathematicians refer to this precision of language and logic as "rigor".
This is to avoid mistaken "theorems", based on fallible intuitions, of which many instances have occurred in the history of the subject.
The Greeks revolted in 499 BCE, but ultimately were defeated in 494 BCE.
Several factors contributed to the birth of pre-Socratic philosophy in Ancient Greece.
Another factor was the ease and frequency of intra-Greek travel, which led to the blending and comparison of ideas.
The democratic political system of independent poleis also contributed to the rise of philosophy.
The philosophers' ideas, were, to a certain extent, answers to questions that were subtly present in the work of Homer and Hesiod.
They are considered predecessors of the pre-Socratics since they seek to address the origin of the world and to organize traditional folklore and legends systematically.
This "law", however, is less realistic than more recent models, such as Stevens's power law.)
When the logarithm of a random variable has a normal distribution, the variable is said to have a log-normal distribution.
For such a model, the likelihood function depends on at least one parameter that must be estimated.
Similarly, the merge sort algorithm sorts an unsorted list by dividing the list into halves and sorting these first before merging the results.
Lyapunov exponents use logarithms to gauge the degree of chaoticity of a dynamical system.
The Sierpinski triangle (pictured) can be covered by three copies of itself, each having sides half the original length.
Dedicated to bringing greater public attention to Keaton's life and work, the membership includes many individuals from the television and film industry: actors, producers, authors, artists, graphic novelists, musicians, and designers, as well as those who simply admire the magic of Buster Keaton.
Hirschfeld said that modern film stars were more difficult to depict, that silent film comedians such as Laurel and Hardy and Keaton "looked like their caricatures".
Film critic Roger Ebert stated, "The greatest of the silent clowns is Buster Keaton, not only because of what he did, but because of how he did it.
Filmmaker Mel Brooks has credited Buster Keaton as a major influence, saying: "I owe (Buster) a lot on two levels: One for being such a great teacher for me as a filmmaker myself, and the other just as a human being watching this gifted person doing these amazing things.
Actor and stunt performer Johnny Knoxville cites Keaton as an inspiration when coming up with ideas for Jackass projects.
Lewis was particularly moved by the fact that Eleanor said his eyes looked like Keaton's.
Members of an ethnic group, on the whole, claim cultural continuities over time, although historians and cultural anthropologists have documented that many of the values, practices, and norms that imply continuity with the past are of relatively recent invention.
It is based on the notion of "culture".
This view arose as a way to justify enslavement of African Americans and genocide of Native Americans in a society that was officially founded on freedom for all.
Many of the foremost scientists of the time took up the idea of racial difference and found that white Europeans were superior.
Instead of attributing the marginalized status of people of color in the United States to their inherent biological inferiority, he attributed it to their failure to assimilate into American culture.
They argue in Racial Formation in the United States that the ethnicity theory was exclusively based on the immigration patterns of the white population and did take into account the unique experiences of non-whites in the United States.
So phyla can be merged or split if it becomes apparent that they are related to one another or not.
By Budd and Jensen's definition, a phylum is defined by a set of characters shared by all its living representatives.
However, as it is character based, it is easy to apply to the fossil record.
However, proving that a fossil belongs to the crown group of a phylum is difficult, as it must display a character unique to a sub-set of the crown group.
The table below follows the influential (though contentious) Cavalier-Smith system in equating "Plantae" with Archaeplastida, a group containing Viridiplantae and the algal Rhodophyta and Glaucophyta divisions.
The division Pinophyta may be used for all gymnosperms (i.e. including cycads, ginkgos and gnetophytes), or for conifers alone as below.
These stress responses could also allow them to survive in harsh space conditions, although evolution also puts some restrictions on their use as analogues to extraterrestrial life.
The formation of spores allows for it to survive extreme environments while still being able to restart cellular growth.
The two landers were identical, so the same tests were carried out at two places on Mars' surface; Viking 1 near the equator and Viking 2 further north.
In astronomy, extinction is the absorption and scattering of electromagnetic radiation by dust and gas between an emitting astronomical object and the observer.
For stars that lie near the plane of the Milky Way and are within a few thousand parsecs of the Earth, extinction in the visual band of frequencies (photometric system) is roughly 1.8 magnitudes per kiloparsec.
Reddening occurs due to the light scattering off dust and other matter in the interstellar medium.
In 1973 Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen created the first transgenic organism by inserting antibiotic resistance genes into the plasmid of an Escherichia coli bacterium.
In 1976 Genentech, the first genetic engineering company, was founded by Herbert Boyer and Robert Swanson and a year later the company produced a human protein (somatostatin) in E.coli.
The insulin produced by bacteria was approved for release by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1982.
The People's Republic of China was the first country to commercialise transgenic plants, introducing a virus-resistant tobacco in 1992.
In 1995, Bt Potato was approved safe by the Environmental Protection Agency, after having been approved by the FDA, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the US.
Genetic screens can be carried out to determine potential genes and further tests then used to identify the best candidates.
Misunderstanding the rigor is a cause for some of the common misconceptions of mathematics.
On the other hand, proof assistants allow verifying all details that cannot be given in a hand-written proof, and provide certainty of the correctness of long proofs such as that of the Feit–Thompson theorem.
In addition to these main concerns, there are also subdivisions dedicated to exploring links from the heart of mathematics to other fields: to logic, to set theory (foundations), to the empirical mathematics of the various sciences (applied mathematics), and more recently to the rigorous study of uncertainty.
Some disagreement about the foundations of mathematics continues to the present day.
As such, it is home to Gödel's incompleteness theorems which (informally) imply that any effective formal system that contains basic arithmetic, if sound (meaning that all theorems that can be proved are true), is necessarily incomplete (meaning that there are true theorems which cannot be proved in that system).
Modern logic is divided into recursion theory, model theory, and proof theory, and is closely linked to theoretical computer science, as well as to category theory.
The first pre-Socratic philosophers also traveled extensively to other lands, meaning that pre-Socratic thought had roots abroad as well as domestically.
The pre-Socratic philosophers shared the intuition that there was a single explanation that could explain both the plurality and the singularity of the whole – and that explanation would not be direct actions of the gods.
Many sought the material principle (arche) of things, and the method of their origin and disappearance.
In their effort to make sense of the cosmos they coined new terms and concepts such as rhythm, symmetry, analogy, deductionism, reductionism, mathematicazion of nature and others.
It could mean the beginning or origin with the undertone that there is an effect on the things to follow.
This may have been because of a lack of instruments, or because of a tendency to view the world as a unity, undeconstructable, so it would be impossible for an external eye to observe tiny fractions of nature under experimental control.
Another example is the p-adic logarithm, the inverse function of the p-adic exponential.
Carrying out the exponentiation can be done efficiently, but the discrete logarithm is believed to be very hard to calculate in some groups.
Square roots of negative numbers can be discussed within the framework of complex numbers.
In Ancient India, the knowledge of theoretical and applied aspects of square and square root was at least as old as the Sulba Sutras, dated around 800–500 BC (possibly much earlier).
The letter jīm resembles the present square root shape.
It defines an important concept of standard deviation used in probability theory and statistics.
In 1964, he told an interviewer that in making "this particular pork pie", he "started with a good Stetson and cut it down", stiffening the brim with sugar water.
His paternal great-grandparents were Welsh.
Lloyd began collaborating with Roach who had formed his own studio in 1913.
In 1919, she left Lloyd to pursue her dramatic aspirations.
Reportedly, the more Lloyd watched Davis the more he liked her.
Harold Lloyd would move away from tragicomic personas, and portray an everyman with unwavering confidence and optimism.
Assimilation shedding the particular qualities of a native culture for the purpose of blending in with a host culture did not work for some groups as a response to racism and discrimination, though it did for others.
They culminated in the rise of "nation-states" in which the presumptive boundaries of the nation coincided (or ideally coincided) with state boundaries.
Nation-states, however, invariably include populations who have been excluded from national life for one reason or another.
Multi-ethnic states can be the result of two opposite events, either the recent creation of state borders at variance with traditional tribal territories, or the recent immigration of ethnic minorities into a former nation-state.
States such as the United Kingdom, France and Switzerland comprised distinct ethnic groups from their formation and have likewise experienced substantial immigration, resulting in what has been termed "multicultural" societies, especially in large cities.
Though these categories are usually discussed as belonging to the public, political sphere, they are upheld within the private, family sphere to a great extent.
Protista is a polyphyletic taxon, which is less acceptable to present-day biologists than in the past.
Carl Linnaeus (1707–1778) laid the foundations for modern biological nomenclature, now regulated by the Nomenclature Codes, in 1735.
In 1937 Édouard Chatton introduced the terms "prokaryote" and "eukaryote" to differentiate these organisms.
Robert Whittaker recognized an additional kingdom for the Fungi.
The remaining two kingdoms, Protista and Monera, included unicellular and simple cellular colonies.
In other systems, such as Lynn Margulis's system of five kingdoms, the plants included just the land plants (Embryophyta), and Protoctista has a broader definition.
In most photometric systems filters (passbands) are used from which readings of magnitude of light may take account of latitude and humidity among terrestrial factors.
Broadly speaking, interstellar extinction is strongest at short wavelengths, generally observed by using techniques from spectroscopy.
The amount of extinction can be significantly higher than this in specific directions.
As a result, when computing cosmic distances it can be advantageous to move to star data from the near-infared (of which the filter or passband Ks is quite standard) where the variations and amount of extinction are significantly less, and similar ratios as to R(Ks): 0.49±0.02 and 0.528±0.015 were found respectively by independent groups.
This feature was first observed in the 1960s, but its origin is still not well understood.
In the SMC, more extreme variation is seen with no 2175 Å and very strong far-UV extinction in the star forming Bar and fairly normal ultraviolet extinction seen in the more quiescent Wing.
These segments can then be extracted through gel electrophoresis.
Once isolated the gene is ligated into a plasmid that is then inserted into a bacterium.
These include a promoter and terminator region, which initiate and end transcription.
This ability can be induced in other bacteria via stress (e.g. thermal or electric shock), which increases the cell membrane's permeability to DNA; up-taken DNA can either integrate with the genome or exist as extrachromosomal DNA.
In plants the DNA is often inserted using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, taking advantage of the Agrobacteriums T-DNA sequence that allows natural insertion of genetic material into plant cells.
In plants this is accomplished through the use of tissue culture.
Computability theory examines the limitations of various theoretical models of the computer, including the most well-known model—the Turing machine.
Consideration of the natural numbers also leads to the transfinite numbers, which formalize the concept of "infinity".
Thus one can study groups, rings, fields and other abstract systems; together such studies (for structures defined by algebraic operations) constitute the domain of abstract algebra.
Trigonometry is the branch of mathematics that deals with relationships between the sides and the angles of triangles and with the trigonometric functions.
Convex and discrete geometry were developed to solve problems in number theory and functional analysis but now are pursued with an eye on applications in optimization and computer science.
Lie groups are used to study space, structure, and change.
Systematic because they tried to universalize their findings.
The pre-Socratics were not atheists; however, they minimized the extent of the gods' involvement in natural phenomena such as thunder or totally eliminated the gods from the natural world.
The first phase of pre-Socratic philosophy, mainly the Milesians, Xenophanes, and Heraclitus, consisted of rejecting traditional cosmogony and attempting to explain nature based on empirical observations and interpretations.
The Eleatics were also monists (believing that only one thing exists and everything else is just a transformation of it).
He is considered the first western philosopher since he was the first to use reason, to use proof, and to generalize.
Thales may have been of Phoenician ancestry.
Most pocket calculators have a square root key.
The time complexity for computing a square root with n digits of precision is equivalent to that of multiplying two n-digit numbers.
Hilbert's problems are twenty-three problems in mathematics published by German mathematician David Hilbert in 1900.
For other problems, such as the 5th, experts have traditionally agreed on a single interpretation, and a solution to the accepted interpretation has been given, but closely related unsolved problems exist.
There are two problems that are not only unresolved but may in fact be unresolvable by modern standards.
The other twenty-one problems have all received significant attention, and late into the twentieth century work on these problems was still considered to be of the greatest importance.
To create his new character Lloyd donned a pair of lensless horn-rimmed glasses but wore normal clothing; previously, he had worn a fake mustache and ill-fitting clothes as the Chaplinesque "Lonesome Luke". "
They were natural and the romance could be believable."
On Sunday, August 24, 1919, while posing for some promotional still photographs in the Los Angeles Witzel Photography Studio, he picked up what he thought was a prop bomb and lit it with a cigarette.
Lloyd was in the act of lighting a cigarette from the fuse of the bomb when it exploded, also badly burning his face and chest and injuring his eye.
Lloyd and Roach parted ways in 1924, and Lloyd became the independent producer of his own films.
All of these films were enormously successful and profitable, and Lloyd would eventually become the highest paid film performer of the 1920s.
Before Weber (1864–1920), race and ethnicity were primarily seen as two aspects of the same thing.
According to this view, the state should not acknowledge ethnic, national or racial identity but rather instead enforce political and legal equality of all individuals.
The 19th century saw the development of the political ideology of ethnic nationalism, when the concept of race was tied to nationalism, first by German theorists including Johann Gottfried von Herder.
Each promoted the pan-ethnic idea that these governments were acquiring only lands that had always been inhabited by ethnic Germans.
The colonization of Asia was largely ended in the 20th century, with national drives for independence and self-determination across the continent.
A number of European countries, including France and Switzerland, do not collect information on the ethnicity of their resident population.
Technological advances in electron microscopy allowed the separation of the Chromista from the Plantae kingdom.
Finally, some protists lacking mitochondria were discovered.
This superkingdom was opposed to the Metakaryota superkingdom, grouping together the five other eukaryotic kingdoms (Animalia, Protozoa, Fungi, Plantae and Chromista).
Cavalier-Smith no longer accepted the importance of the fundamental Eubacteria–Archaebacteria divide put forward by Woese and others and supported by recent research.
Cavalier-Smith does not accept the requirement for taxa to be monophyletic ("holophyletic" in his terminology) to be valid.
The advances of phylogenetic studies allowed Cavalier-Smith to realize that all the phyla thought to be archezoans (i.e. primitively amitochondriate eukaryotes) had in fact secondarily lost their mitochondria, typically by transforming them into new organelles: Hydrogenosomes.
Finding extinction curves in both the LMC and SMC which are similar to those found in the Milky Way and finding extinction curves in the Milky Way that look more like those found in the LMC2 supershell of the LMC and in the SMC Bar has given rise to a new interpretation.
This extinction has three main components: Rayleigh scattering by air molecules, scattering by particulates, and molecular absorption.
The amount of such extinction is lowest at the observer's zenith and highest near the horizon.
The Drake equation speculates about the existence of sapient life elsewhere in the universe.
This encompasses a search for current and historic extraterrestrial life, and a narrower search for extraterrestrial intelligent life.
Over the years, science fiction communicated scientific ideas, imagined a wide range of possibilities, and influenced public interest in and perspectives of extraterrestrial life.
Selectable markers are used to easily differentiate transformed from untransformed cells.
These tests can also confirm the chromosomal location and copy number of the inserted gene.
The new genetic material can be inserted randomly within the host genome or targeted to a specific location.
The frequency of gene targeting can be greatly enhanced through genome editing.
TALEN and CRISPR are the two most commonly used and each has its own advantages.
Most commercialised GMOs are insect resistant or herbicide tolerant crop plants.
Functions arise here as a central concept describing a changing quantity.
One of many applications of functional analysis is quantum mechanics.
Statisticians (working as part of a research project) "create data that makes sense" with random sampling and with randomized experiments; the design of a statistical sample or experiment specifies the analysis of the data (before the data becomes available).
Numerical analysis studies methods for problems in analysis using functional analysis and approximation theory; numerical analysis includes the study of approximation and discretisation broadly with special concern for rounding errors.
The Chern Medal was introduced in 2010 to recognize lifetime achievement.
This list achieved great celebrity among mathematicians, and at least nine of the problems have now been solved.
Thales, though, advanced geometry with his abstract deductive reasoning reaching universal generalizations.
Thales visited Sardis, as many Greeks then, where astronomical records were kept and used astronomical observations for practical matters (oil harvesting).
He attributed the origin of the world to an element instead of a divine being.
He was a member of the elite of Miletus, wealthy and a statesman.
In response to Thales, he postulated as the first principle an undefined, unlimited substance without qualities (apeiron), out of which the primary opposites, hot and cold, moist and dry, became differentiated.
He is also known for speculating on the origin of mankind.
Hilbert lived for 12 years after Kurt Gödel published his theorem, but does not seem to have written any formal response to Gödel's work.
In discussing his opinion that every mathematical problem should have a solution, Hilbert allows for the possibility that the solution could be a proof that the original problem is impossible.
The first of these was proved by Bernard Dwork; a completely different proof of the first two, via ℓ-adic cohomology, was given by Alexander Grothendieck.
However, the Weil conjectures were, in their scope, more like a single Hilbert problem, and Weil never intended them as a programme for all mathematics.
Erdős often offered monetary rewards; the size of the reward depended on the perceived difficulty of the problem.
At least in the mainstream media, the de facto 21st century analogue of Hilbert's problems is the list of seven Millennium Prize Problems chosen during 2000 by the Clay Mathematics Institute.
However, his go-getting screen character was out of touch with Great Depression movie audiences of the 1930s.
On March 23, 1937, Lloyd sold the land of his studio, Harold Lloyd Motion Picture Company, to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
He returned for an additional starring appearance in The Sin of Harold Diddlebock, an ill-fated homage to Lloyd's career, directed by Preston Sturges and financed by Howard Hughes.
Lloyd and Sturges had different conceptions of the material and fought frequently during the shoot; Lloyd was particularly concerned that while Sturges had spent three to four months on the script of the first third of the film, "the last two-thirds of it he wrote in a week or less".
Some saw The Old Gold Comedy Theater as being a lighter version of Lux Radio Theater, and it featured some of the best-known film and radio personalities of the day, including Fred Allen, June Allyson, Lucille Ball, Ralph Bellamy, Linda Darnell, Susan Hayward, Herbert Marshall, Dick Powell, Edward G. Robinson, Jane Wyman, and Alan Young.
Many years later, acetate discs of 29 of the shows were discovered in Lloyd's home, and they now circulate among old-time radio collectors.
During European colonization, Europeans arrived in North America.
Digital ethnography allows for a lot more opportunities to look at different cultures and societies.
Relational Ethnography articulates studying fields rather than places or processes rather than processed people.
The goal is to collect data in such a way that the researcher imposes a minimal amount of personal bias in the data.
Interviews are often taped and later transcribed, allowing the interview to proceed unimpaired of note-taking, but with all information available later for full analysis.
Despite these attempts of reflexivity, no researcher can be totally unbiased.
Based on such RNA studies, Carl Woese thought life could be divided into three large divisions and referred to them as the "three primary kingdom" model or "urkingdom" model.
Woese divided the prokaryotes (previously classified as the Kingdom Monera) into two groups, called Eubacteria and Archaebacteria, stressing that there was as much genetic difference between these two groups as between either of them and all eukaryotes.
They held that only monophyletic groups should be accepted as formal ranks in a classification and that – while this approach had been impractical previously (necessitating "literally dozens of eukaryotic 'kingdoms) – it had now become possible to divide the eukaryotes into "just a few major groups that are probably all monophyletic".
It divided the eukaryotes into the same six "supergroups".
Plants are thought to be more distantly related to animals and fungi.
The ten arguments against include the fact that they are obligate intracellular parasites that lack metabolism and are not capable of replication outside of a host cell.
According to this argument, made by scientists such as Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking, as well as notable personalities such as Winston Churchill, it would be improbable for life not to exist somewhere other than Earth.
Life may have emerged independently at many places throughout the universe.
At each level of the organism there will be mechanisms in place to eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation, and keep the organism functioning.
Life based on ammonia (rather than water) has been suggested as an alternative, though this solvent appears less suitable than water.
About 95% of living matter is built upon only six elements: carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur.
The carbon atom has the unique ability to make four strong chemical bonds with other atoms, including other carbon atoms.
Mouse hybridomas, cells fused together to create monoclonal antibodies, have been adapted through genetic engineering to create human monoclonal antibodies.
Genetic engineering is also used to create animal models of human diseases.
Potential cures can be tested against these mouse models.
In 2015 a virus was used to insert a healthy gene into the skin cells of a boy suffering from a rare skin disease, epidermolysis bullosa, in order to grow, and then graft healthy skin onto 80 percent of the boy's body which was affected by the illness.
There are also concerns that the technology could be used not just for treatment, but for enhancement, modification or alteration of a human beings' appearance, adaptability, intelligence, character or behavior.
He said that twin girls, Lulu and Nana, had been born a few weeks earlier.
The value of Pi was first calculated by him.
It was the Pythagoreans who coined the term "mathematics", and with whom the study of mathematics for its own sake begins.
Because of a political dispute, the Christian community in Alexandria punished her, presuming she was involved, by stripping her naked and scraping off her skin with clamshells (some say roofing tiles).
Funding for translation of scientific texts in other languages was ongoing throughout the reign of certain caliphs, and it turned out that certain scholars became experts in the works they translated and in turn received further support for continuing to develop certain sciences.
A notable feature of many scholars working under Muslim rule in medieval times is that they were often polymaths.
During this period of transition from a mainly feudal and ecclesiastical culture to a predominantly secular one, many notable mathematicians had other occupations: Luca Pacioli (founder of accounting); Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia (notable engineer and bookkeeper); Gerolamo Cardano (earliest founder of probability and binomial expansion); Robert Recorde (physician) and François Viète (lawyer).
He also wrote a book on nature in prose.
He was a well-traveled poet whose primary interests were theology and epistemology.
He famously said that if oxen, horses, or lions could draw, they would draw their gods as oxen, horses, or lions.
Xenophanes also offered naturalistic explanations for phenomena such as the sun, the rainbow and St. Elmo's fire.
While Xenophanes was a pessimist about the capability of humans to reach knowledge, he also believed in gradual progress through critical thinking.
Heraclitus posited that all things in nature are in a state of perpetual flux.
The Riemann hypothesis is noteworthy for its appearance on the list of Hilbert problems, Smale's list, the list of Millennium Prize Problems, and even the Weil conjectures, in its geometric guise.
1931, 1936 3rd Given any two polyhedra of equal volume, is it always possible to cut the first into finitely many polyhedral pieces that can be reassembled to yield the second?
— 12th Extend the Kronecker–Weber theorem on Abelian extensions of the rational numbers to any base number field.
1959 15th Rigorous foundation of Schubert's enumerative calculus.
1927 18th (a) Is there a polyhedron that admits only an anisohedral tiling in three dimensions?(b) What is the densest sphere packing?
A number is a mathematical object used to count, measure, and label.
He was a Past Potentate of Al-Malaikah Shrine in Los Angeles, and was eventually selected as Imperial Potentate of the Shriners of North America for the year 1949–50.
Lloyd was invested with the Rank and Decoration of Knight Commander Court of Honour in 1955 and coroneted an Inspector General Honorary, 33°, in 1965.
It said, as first step, Lloyd will write the story of his life for Simon and Schuster.
He became known for his nude photographs of models, such as Bettie Page and stripper Dixie Evans, for a number of men's magazines.
We never intended them to be played with pianos."
They've come close to it, but they haven't come all the way up".
These informants are typically asked to identify other informants who represent the community, often using snowball or chain sampling.
2010) examine the ontological and epistemological presuppositions underlying ethnography.
Critical theory researchers address "issues of power within the researcher-researched relationships and the links between knowledge and power."
An image can be contained within the physical world through a particular individual's perspective, primarily based on that individual's past experiences.
The idea of an image relies on the imagination and has been seen to be utilized by children in a very spontaneous and natural manner.
Cultural and social anthropologists today place a high value on doing ethnographic research.
The first two are all prokaryotic microorganisms, or mostly single-celled organisms whose cells have a distorted or non-membrane bound nucleus.
Halophiles, organisms that thrive in highly salty environments, and hyperthermophiles, organisms that thrive in extremely hot environments, are examples of Archaea.
Cyanobacteria and mycoplasmas are two examples of bacteria.
Evolution is change in the heritable characteristics of biological populations over successive generations.
Evolution occurs when evolutionary processes such as natural selection (including sexual selection) and genetic drift act on this variation, resulting in certain characteristics becoming more common or rare within a population.
The scientific theory of evolution by natural selection was conceived independently by Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in the mid-19th century and was set out in detail in Darwin's book On the Origin of Species.
According to NASA's 2015 Astrobiology Strategy, "Life on other worlds is most likely to include microbes, and any complex living system elsewhere is likely to have arisen from and be founded upon microbial life.
Rick Colwell, a member of the Deep Carbon Observatory team from Oregon State University, told the BBC: "I think it’s probably reasonable to assume that the subsurface of other planets and their moons are habitable, especially since we’ve seen here on Earth that organisms can function far away from sunlight using the energy provided directly from the rocks deep underground".
The panspermia hypothesis proposes that life elsewhere in the Solar System may have a common origin.
In the 19th century it was again revived in modern form by several scientists, including Jöns Jacob Berzelius (1834), Kelvin (1871), Hermann von Helmholtz (1879) and, somewhat later, by Svante Arrhenius (1903).
One of the early scientific inquires into the topic appeared in an 1878 Scientific American article entitled "Is the Moon Inhabited?"
Warm and pressurized regions in the Moon's interior might still contain liquid water.
Currently, germline modification is banned in 40 countries.
Bacteria are cheap, easy to grow, clonal, multiply quickly, relatively easy to transform and can be stored at -80 °C almost indefinitely.
This could be the effect on the phenotype of the organism, where the gene is expressed or what other genes it interacts with.
In a simple knockout a copy of the desired gene has been altered to make it non-functional.
This allows the experimenter to analyse the defects caused by this mutation and thereby determine the role of particular genes.
The simplest method, and the first to be used, is "alanine scanning", where every position in turn is mutated to the unreactive amino acid alanine.
British universities of this period adopted some approaches familiar to the Italian and German universities, but as they already enjoyed substantial freedoms and autonomy the changes there had begun with the Age of Enlightenment, the same influences that inspired Humboldt.
Students could conduct research in seminars or laboratories and began to produce doctoral theses with more scientific content.
Mathematicians and applied mathematicians are considered to be two of the STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) careers.
Actuaries also address financial questions, including those involving the level of pension contributions required to produce a certain retirement income and the way in which a company should invest resources to maximize its return on investments in light of potential risk.
The hieroglyphic system for Egyptian numerals, like the later Roman numerals, descended from tally marks used for counting.
Early number systems that included positional notation were not decimal, including the sexagesimal (base 60) system for Babylonian numerals, and the vigesimal (base 20) system that defined Maya numerals.
Fire becomes water and earth and vice versa.
There, Heraclitus claims we can not step into the same river twice, a position summarized with the slogan ta panta rhei (everything flows).
Another key concept of Heraclitus is that opposites somehow mirror each other, a doctrine called unity of opposites.
Heraclitus' doctrine on the unity of opposites suggests that unity of the world and its various parts is kept through the tension produced by the opposites.
A fundamental idea in Heraclitus is logos, an ancient Greek word with a variety of meanings; Heraclitus might have used a different meaning of the word with each usage in his book.
Some decades later he had to flee Croton and relocate to Metapontum.
More universally, individual numbers can be represented by symbols, called numerals; for example, "5" is a numeral that represents the number five.
Calculations with numbers are done with arithmetical operations, the most familiar being addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation.
Gilsdorf, Thomas E. Introduction to Cultural Mathematics: With Case Studies in the Otomies and Incas, John Wiley & Sons, Feb 24, 2012.Restivo, S. Mathematics in Society and History, Springer Science & Business Media, Nov 30, 1992.
During the 19th century, mathematicians began to develop many different abstractions which share certain properties of numbers, and may be seen as extending the concept.
A tallying system has no concept of place value (as in modern decimal notation), which limits its representation of large numbers.
Brahmagupta's Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta is the first book that mentions zero as a number, hence Brahmagupta is usually considered the first to formulate the concept of zero.
In the early 1960s, Lloyd produced two compilation films, featuring scenes from his old comedies, Harold Lloyd's World of Comedy and The Funny Side of Life.
Time-Life released several of the feature films more or less intact, also using some of Scharf's scores which had been commissioned by Lloyd.
The Brownlow and Gill documentary was shown as part of the PBS series American Masters, and created a renewed interest in Lloyd's work in the United States, but the films were largely unavailable.
They also adopted Gloria Freeman (1924–1986) in September 1930, whom they renamed Marjorie Elizabeth Lloyd but was known as "Peggy" for most of her life.
Davis died from a heart attack in 1969, two years before Lloyd's death.
In 1925, at the height of his movie career, Lloyd entered into Freemasonry at the Alexander Hamilton Lodge No.
Ethnographies are also sometimes called "case studies."
The fieldwork usually involves spending a year or more in another society, living with the local people and learning about their ways of life.
Benedict's experiences with the Southwest Zuni pueblo is to be considered the basis of her formative fieldwork.
A typical ethnography attempts to be holistic and typically follows an outline to include a brief history of the culture in question, an analysis of the physical geography or terrain inhabited by the people under study, including climate, and often including what biological anthropologists call habitat.
Kinship and social structure (including age grading, peer groups, gender, voluntary associations, clans, moieties, and so forth, if they exist) are typically included.
Rites, rituals, and other evidence of religion have long been an interest and are sometimes central to ethnographies, especially when conducted in public where visiting anthropologists can see them.
Thus, in successive generations members of a population are more likely to be replaced by the progenies of parents with favourable characteristics that have enabled them to survive and reproduce in their respective environments.
The fossil record includes a progression from early biogenic graphite, to microbial mat fossils, to fossilised multicellular organisms.
It sought explanations of natural phenomena in terms of physical laws that were the same for all visible things and that did not require the existence of any fixed natural categories or divine cosmic order.
The biological classification introduced by Carl Linnaeus in 1735 explicitly recognised the hierarchical nature of species relationships, but still viewed species as fixed according to a divine plan.
These ideas were condemned by established naturalists as speculation lacking empirical support.
Partly influenced by An Essay on the Principle of Population (1798) by Thomas Robert Malthus, Darwin noted that population growth would lead to a "struggle for existence" in which favourable variations prevailed as others perished.
There is evidence that Mars had a warmer and wetter past: dried-up riverbeds, polar ice caps, volcanoes, and minerals that form in the presence of water have all been found.
The vapor could have been produced by ice volcanoes or by ice near the surface sublimating (transforming from solid to gas).
It is also possible that Europa could support aerobic macrofauna using oxygen created by cosmic rays impacting its surface ice.
On 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of "clay-like minerals" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa.
Some claim to have identified evidence that microbial life has existed on Mars.
In 1996, a controversial report stated that structures resembling nanobacteria were discovered in a meteorite, ALH84001, formed of rock ejected from Mars.
The process is much the same as that in knockout engineering, except that the construct is designed to increase the function of the gene, usually by providing extra copies of the gene or inducing synthesis of the protein more frequently.
One way to do this is to replace the wild-type gene with a 'fusion' gene, which is a juxtaposition of the wild-type gene with a reporting element such as green fluorescent protein (GFP) that will allow easy visualisation of the products of the genetic modification.
Expression studies aim to discover where and when specific proteins are produced.
Some genes do not work well in bacteria, so yeast, insect cells or mammalians cells can also be used.
Certain genetically modified microbes can also be used in biomining and bioremediation, due to their ability to extract heavy metals from their environment and incorporate them into compounds that are more easily recoverable.
Fungal and virus resistant crops have also been developed or are in development.
Prior to the works of Euclid around 300 BC, Greek studies in mathematics overlapped with philosophical and mystical beliefs.
The ancient Greeks lacked a symbol for zero until the Hellenistic period, and they used three separate sets of symbols as digits: one set for the units place, one for the tens place, and one for the hundreds.
Their long division algorithm was the same, and the digit-by-digit square root algorithm, popularly used as recently as the 20th century, was known to Archimedes (who may have invented it).
The ancient Chinese had advanced arithmetic studies dating from the Shang Dynasty and continuing through the Tang Dynasty, from basic numbers to advanced algebra.
For the hundreds place, they then reused the symbols for the units place, and so on.
The ancient Chinese were the first to meaningfully discover, understand, and apply negative numbers.
They advanced his ideas, reaching the claim that everything consists of numbers, the universe is made by numbers and everything is a reflection of analogies and geometrical relations.
Their way of life was ascetic, restraining themselves from various pleasures and food.
Other pre-Socratic philosophers mocked Pythagoras for his belief in reincarnation.
Pythagoreanism influenced later Christian currents as Neoplatonism, and its pedagogical methods were adapted by Plato.
According to Aristotle and Diogenes Laertius, Xenophanes was Parmenides' teacher, and it is debated whether Xenophanes should also be considered an Eleatic.
He was the first to deduce that the earth is spherical.
In a similar vein, Pāṇini (5th century BC) used the null (zero) operator in the Ashtadhyayi, an early example of an algebraic grammar for the Sanskrit language (also see Pingala).
By 130 AD, Ptolemy, influenced by Hipparchus and the Babylonians, was using a symbol for 0 (a small circle with a long overbar) within a sexagesimal numeral system otherwise using alphabetic Greek numerals.
Diophantus' previous reference was discussed more explicitly by Indian mathematician Brahmagupta, in Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta in 628, who used negative numbers to produce the general form quadratic formula that remains in use today.
At the same time, the Chinese were indicating negative numbers by drawing a diagonal stroke through the right-most non-zero digit of the corresponding positive number's numeral.
Classical Greek and Indian mathematicians made studies of the theory of rational numbers, as part of the general study of number theory.
The concept of decimal fractions is closely linked with decimal place-value notation; the two seem to have developed in tandem.
In 1926, he became a 32° Scottish Rite Mason in the Valley of Los Angeles, California.
A portion of Lloyd's personal inventory of his silent films (then estimated to be worth $2 million) was destroyed in August 1943 when his film vault caught fire.
The fire spared the main house and outbuildings.
Lloyd was honored in 1960 for his contribution to motion pictures with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 1503 Vine Street.
The second citation was a snub to Chaplin, who at that point had fallen foul of McCarthyism and had his entry visa to the United States revoked.
Gladys Marie Smith (April 8, 1892 – May 29, 1979), known professionally as Mary Pickford, was a Canadian-American film actress and producer with a career that spanned five decades.
For example, if within a group of people, winking was a communicative gesture, he sought to first determine what kinds of things a wink might mean (it might mean several things).
Geertz, while still following something of a traditional ethnographic outline, moved outside that outline to talk about "webs" instead of "outlines" of culture.
Writing Culture helped bring changes to both anthropology and ethnography often described in terms of being 'postmodern,' 'reflexive,' 'literary,' 'deconstructive,' or 'poststructural' in nature, in that the text helped to highlight the various epistemic and political predicaments that many practitioners saw as plaguing ethnographic representations and practices.
In regards to this last point, Writing Culture became a focal point for looking at how ethnographers could describe different cultures and societies without denying the subjectivity of those individuals and groups being studied while simultaneously doing so without laying claim to absolute knowledge and objective authority.
As the purpose of ethnography is to describe and interpret the shared and learned patterns of values, behaviors, beliefs, and language of a culture-sharing group, Harris, (1968), also Agar (1980) note that ethnography is both a process and an outcome of the research.
Sociologist Sam Ladner argues in her book, that understanding consumers and their desires requires a shift in "standpoint," one that only ethnography provides.
Darwin developed his theory of "natural selection" from 1838 onwards and was writing up his "big book" on the subject when Alfred Russel Wallace sent him a version of virtually the same theory in 1858.
Towards this end, Darwin developed his provisional theory of pangenesis.
To explain how new variants originate, de Vries developed a mutation theory that led to a temporary rift between those who accepted Darwinian evolution and biometricians who allied with de Vries.
The publication of the structure of DNA by James Watson and Francis Crick with contribution of Rosalind Franklin in 1953 demonstrated a physical mechanism for inheritance.
In 1973, evolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky penned that "nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution," because it has brought to light the relations of what first seemed disjointed facts in natural history into a coherent explanatory body of knowledge that describes and predicts many observable facts about life on this planet.
The complete set of observable traits that make up the structure and behaviour of an organism is called its phenotype.
NASA officials soon distanced NASA from the scientists' claims, and Stoker herself backed off from her initial assertions.
It is designed to assess the past and present habitability on Mars using a variety of scientific instruments.
However, significant advances in the ability to find and resolve light from smaller rocky worlds near their stars are necessary before such spectroscopic methods can be used to analyze extrasolar planets.
In August 2011, findings by NASA, based on studies of meteorites found on Earth, suggest DNA and RNA components (adenine, guanine and related organic molecules), building blocks for life as we know it, may be formed extraterrestrially in outer space.
In August 2012, and in a world first, astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule, glycolaldehyde, in a distant star system.
The Kepler space telescope has also detected a few thousand candidate planets, of which about 11% may be false positives.
In 2016 Salmon have been genetically modified with growth hormones to reach normal adult size much faster.
Soybeans and canola have been genetically modified to produce more healthy oils.
Gene transfer through viral vectors has been proposed as a means of controlling invasive species as well as vaccinating threatened fauna from disease.
Applications of genetic engineering in conservation are thus far mostly theoretical and have yet to be put into practice.
The Asilomar meeting recommended a set of voluntary guidelines regarding the use of recombinant technology.
One hundred and fifty-seven countries are members of the Protocol and many use it as a reference point for their own regulations.
His contemporary, the Syriac bishop Severus Sebokht (650 AD) said, "Indians possess a method of calculation that no word can praise enough.
The Arabs also learned this new method and called it hesab.
The flourishing of algebra in the medieval Islamic world, and also in Renaissance Europe, was an outgrowth of the enormous simplification of computation through decimal notation.
Arithmetic expressions must be evaluated according to the intended sequence of operations.
For example, digital computers can reuse existing adding-circuitry and save additional circuits for implementing a subtraction, by employing the method of two's complement for representing the additive inverses, which is extremely easy to implement in hardware (negation).
Multiplication also combines two numbers into a single number, the product.
Parmenides wrote a hard to interpret poem, named On Nature or On What-is, that substantially influenced later Greek philosophy.
The poem consists of three parts, the proem (i.e., preface), the Way of Truth and the Way of Opinion.
The Way of Truth was then, and is still today, considered of much more importance.
Hence, all the things that we think to be true, even ourselves, are false representations.
The goddess teaches Kouros to use his reasoning to understand whether various claims are true or false, discarding senses as fallacious.
Zeno and Melissus continued Parmenides' thought on cosmology.
However, Pythagoras believed in the absoluteness of numbers, and could not accept the existence of irrational numbers.
By the 17th century, mathematicians generally used decimal fractions with modern notation.
In 1872, the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil E. Kossak), Eduard Heine, Georg Cantor, and Richard Dedekind was brought about.
Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of real numbers, separating all rational numbers into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
Hence it was necessary to consider the wider set of algebraic numbers (all solutions to polynomial equations).
Aristotle defined the traditional Western notion of mathematical infinity.
