Lillian Diana Gish (October 14, 1893 – February 27, 1993) was an American actress, director and screenwriter.
Gish was a prominent film star from 1912 into the 1920s, being particularly associated with the films of director D. W. Griffith.
She also did considerable television work from the early 1950s into the 1980s, and closed her career playing opposite Bette Davis in the 1987 film The Whales of August.
The first several generations of Gishes were Dunkard ministers.
Their mother opened the Majestic Candy Kitchen, and the girls helped sell popcorn and candy to patrons of the old Majestic Theater, located next door.
The seventeen-year-old Lillian traveled to Shawnee, Oklahoma, where James's brother Alfred Grant Gish and his wife, Maude, lived.
An example of multi-sited ethnography is Nancy Scheper-Hughes' work on the international black market for the trade of human organs.
Research in kinship studies often crosses over into different anthropological subfields including medical, feminist, and public anthropology.
That is the matrix into which human children are born in the great majority of cases, and their first words are often kinship terms.
There are stark differences between communities in terms of marital practice and value, leaving much room for anthropological fieldwork.
The marital practice found in most cultures, however, is monogamy, where one woman is married to one man.
There are similar foundational differences where the act of procreation is concerned.
Only derived characters, such as the spine-producing areoles of cacti, provide evidence for descent from a common ancestor.
The difference is that the genetic code itself is used to decide evolutionary relationships, instead of being used indirectly via the characters it gives rise to.
Genetic evidence suggests that the true evolutionary relationship of multicelled organisms is as shown in the cladogram below – fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants.
Investigating how plant species are related to each other allows botanists to better understand the process of evolution in plants.
Although humans have always been interested in the natural history of the animals they saw around them, and made use of this knowledge to domesticate certain species, the formal study of zoology can be said to have originated with Aristotle.
Modern zoology has its origins during the Renaissance and early modern period, with Carl Linnaeus, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Robert Hooke, Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel and many others.
Observations of the large-scale structure of the Universe, a branch known as physical cosmology, have provided a deep understanding of the formation and evolution of the cosmos.
A hierarchical structure of matter began to form from minute variations in the mass density of space.
Gravitational aggregations clustered into filaments, leaving voids in the gaps.
Various fields of physics are crucial to studying the universe.
Finally, the latter is important for the understanding of the large-scale structure of the cosmos.
As the name suggests, an elliptical galaxy has the cross-sectional shape of an ellipse.
The first genetically modified ornamentals commercialized altered color.
Other genetically modified ornamentals include Chrysanthemum and Petunia.
The papaya ringspot virus devastated papaya trees in Hawaii in the twentieth century until transgenic papaya plants were given pathogen-derived resistance.
The second generation of crops aimed to improve the quality, often by altering the nutrient profile.
GM crops contribute by improving harvests through reducing insect pressure, increasing nutrient value and tolerating different abiotic stresses.
The majority of GM crops have been modified to be resistant to selected herbicides, usually a glyphosate or glufosinate based one.
Such a weapon must hold one or more subcritical fissile masses stable for deployment, then induce criticality (create a critical mass) for detonation.
One isotope of uranium, namely uranium-235, is naturally occurring and sufficiently unstable, but it is always found mixed with the more stable isotope uranium-238.
Alternatively, the element plutonium possesses an isotope that is sufficiently unstable for this process to be usable.
They detonated the first nuclear weapon in a test code-named "Trinity", near Alamogordo, New Mexico, on July 16, 1945.
In the wake of unprecedented devastation and casualties from a single weapon, the Japanese government soon surrendered, ending World War II.
Just over four years later, on August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated its first fission weapon.
It can also be understood as the free market idea applied to international trade.
The most outspoken critic of the church in France was François Marie Arouet de Voltaire, a representative figure of the enlightenment.
My one regret in dying is that I cannot aid you in this noble enterprise, the finest and most respectable which the human mind can point out."
Locke stood to refute Sir Robert Filmer's paternally founded political theory in favor of a natural system based on nature in a particular given system.
Unlike Aquinas's preponderant view on the salvation of the soul from original sin, Locke believes man's mind comes into this world as tabula rasa.
Though one could be worried about restrictions on liberty by benevolent monarchs or aristocrats, the traditional worry is that when rulers are politically unaccountable to the governed they will rule in their own interests, rather than the interests of the governed.
The use of imaginary numbers was not widely accepted until the work of Leonhard Euler (1707–1783) and Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855).
The integers form the smallest group and the smallest ring containing the natural numbers.
It is the prototype of all objects of such algebraic structure.
Fixed length integer approximation data types (or subsets) are denoted int or Integer in several programming languages (such as Algol68, C, Java, Delphi, etc.).
These are provable properties of rational numbers and positional number systems, and are not used as definitions in mathematics.
Since the triangle is isosceles, a = b).
Her father died in Norman, Oklahoma, in 1912, but she had returned to Ohio a few months before this.
When Lillian and Dorothy were old enough they joined the theatre, often traveling separately in different productions.
Gish continued to perform on the stage, and in 1913, during a run of A Good Little Devil, she collapsed from anemia.
Her performance in these frigid conditions gave her lasting nerve damage in several fingers.
He utilized her expressive talents to the fullest, developing her into a suffering yet strong heroine.
She directed her sister Dorothy in one film, Remodeling Her Husband (1920), when D. W. Griffith took his unit on location.
The shift can be traced back to the 1960s, with the reassessment of kinship's basic principles offered by Edmund Leach, Rodney Neeham, David Schneider, and others.
This shift was progressed further by the emergence of second-wave feminism in the early 1970s, which introduced ideas of marital oppression, sexual autonomy, and domestic subordination.
At this time, there was the arrival of "Third World feminism", a movement that argued kinship studies could not examine the gender relations of developing countries in isolation, and must pay respect to racial and economic nuance as well.
In Jamaica, marriage as an institution is often substituted for a series of partners, as poor women cannot rely on regular financial contributions in a climate of economic instability.
With this technology, questions of kinship have emerged over the difference between biological and genetic relatedness, as gestational surrogates can provide a biological environment for the embryo while the genetic ties remain with a third party.
There have also been issues of reproductive tourism and bodily commodification, as individuals seek economic security through hormonal stimulation and egg harvesting, which are potentially harmful procedures.
There are cave paintings, engravings and sculptures in France dating back 15,000 years showing bison, horses and deer in carefully rendered detail.
Ancient knowledge of wildlife is illustrated by the realistic depictions of wild and domestic animals in the Near East, Mesopotamia and Egypt, including husbandry practices and techniques, hunting and fishing.
Aristotle, in the fourth century BC, looked at animals as living organisms, studying their structure, development and vital phenomena.
Four hundred years later, Roman physician Galen dissected animals to study their anatomy and the function of the different parts, because the dissection of human cadavers was prohibited at the time.
In Europe, Galen's work on anatomy remained largely unsurpassed and unchallenged up until the 16th century.
Having previously been the realm of gentlemen naturalists, over the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, zoology became an increasingly professional scientific discipline.
Elliptical galaxies are more commonly found at the core of galactic clusters, and may have been formed through mergers of large galaxies.
Spiral galaxies are typically surrounded by a halo of older stars.
About a quarter of all galaxies are irregular, and the peculiar shapes of such galaxies may be the result of gravitational interaction.
A radio galaxy is an active galaxy that is very luminous in the radio portion of the spectrum, and is emitting immense plumes or lobes of gas.
The large-scale structure of the cosmos is represented by groups and clusters of galaxies.
In the center of the Milky Way is the core, a bar-shaped bulge with what is believed to be a supermassive black hole at its center.
A few use the genes that encode for vegetative insecticidal proteins.
Less than one percent of GM crops contained other traits, which include providing virus resistance, delaying senescence and altering the plants composition.
Plants and plant cells have been genetically engineered for production of biopharmaceuticals in bioreactors, a process known as pharming.
Many drugs also contain natural plant ingredients and the pathways that lead to their production have been genetically altered or transferred to other plant species to produce greater volume.
They also pose less risk of being contaminated.
Vaccines are expensive to produce, transport, and administer, so having a system that could produce them locally would allow greater access to poorer and developing areas.
A radiological weapons is a type of nuclear weapon designed to distribute hazardous nuclear material in enemy areas.
While considered useless by a conventional military, such a weapon raises concerns over nuclear terrorism.
The treaty permitted underground nuclear testing.
After signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in 1996 (which had as of 2011 not entered into force), all of these states have pledged to discontinue all nuclear testing.
Throughout the Cold War, the opposing powers had huge nuclear arsenals, sufficient to kill hundreds of millions of people.
Currently nuclear power provides approximately 15.7% of the world's electricity (in 2004) and is used to propel aircraft carriers, icebreakers and submarines (so far economics and fears in some ports have prevented the use of nuclear power in transport ships).
Justice involves duties that are perfect duties—that is, duties that are correlated with rights.
He uses, On Liberty to discuss gender equality in society.
The Liberty of the Ancients was participatory republican liberty, which gave the citizens the right to directly influence politics through debates and votes in the public assembly.
Ancient Liberty was also limited to relatively small and homogenous societies, in which the people could be conveniently gathered together in one place to transact public affairs.
Instead, the voters would elect representatives, who would deliberate in Parliament on behalf of the people and would save citizens from the necessity of daily political involvement.
In Leviathan, Hobbes set out his doctrine of the foundation of states and legitimate governments and creating an objective science of morality.
Since c is even, dividing c by 2 yields an integer.
Substituting 4y2 for c2 in the first equation (c2 = 2b2) gives us 4y2= 2b2.
Since b2 is even, b must be even.
However this contradicts the assumption that they have no common factors.
Hippasus, however, was not lauded for his efforts: according to one legend, he made his discovery while out at sea, and was subsequently thrown overboard by his fellow Pythagoreans “…for having produced an element in the universe which denied the…doctrine that all phenomena in the universe can be reduced to whole numbers and their ratios.”
For example, consider a line segment: this segment can be split in half, that half split in half, the half of the half in half, and so on.
She turned down the money, requesting a more modest wage and a percentage so that the studio could use the funds to increase the quality of her films — hiring the best actors, screenwriters, etc.
Many of the silent era's leading ladies, such as Gish and Pickford, had been wholesome and innocent, but by the early 1930s (after the full adoption of sound and before the Motion Picture Production Code was enforced) these roles were perceived as outdated.
Louis Mayer wanted to stage a scandal ("knock her off her pedestal") to garner public sympathy for Gish, but Lillian didn't want to act both on screen and off, and returned to her first love, the theater.
Returning to movies, Gish was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1946 for Duel in the Sun.
She was considered for various roles in Gone with the Wind ranging from Ellen O'Hara, Scarlett's mother (which went to Barbara O'Neil), to prostitute Belle Watling (which went to Ona Munson).
She appeared as Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna in the short-lived 1965 Broadway musical Anya.
One critique is that, as its inception, the framework of kinship studies was far too structured and formulaic, relying on dense language and stringent rules.
Much of this development can be attributed to the rise in anthropologists working outside of academia and the increasing importance of globalization in both institutions and the field of anthropology.
The two types of institutions defined in the field of anthropology are total institutions and social institutions.
Anthropology of institutions may analyze labor unions, businesses ranging from small enterprises to corporations, government, medical organizations, education, prisons, and financial institutions.
Institutional anthropologists may study the relationship between organizations or between an organization and other parts of society.
More specifically, anthropologists may analyze specific events within an institution, perform semiotic investigations, or analyze the mechanisms by which knowledge and culture are organized and dispersed.
These developments, as well as the results from embryology and paleontology, were synthesized in the 1859 publication of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection; in this Darwin placed the theory of organic evolution on a new footing, by explaining the processes by which it can occur, and providing observational evidence that it had done so.
Darwin gave a new direction to morphology and physiology, by uniting them in a common biological theory: the theory of organic evolution.
An early necessity was to identify the organisms and group them according to their characteristics, differences and relationships, and this is the field of the taxonomist.
His ideas were centered on the morphology of animals.
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
Homo is the genus, and sapiens the specific epithet, both of them combined make up the species name.
The disk is surrounded by a spheroid halo of older, population II stars, as well as relatively dense concentrations of stars known as globular clusters.
These begin as a compact pre-stellar core or dark nebulae, which concentrate and collapse (in volumes determined by the Jeans length) to form compact protostars.
These clusters gradually disperse, and the stars join the population of the Milky Way.
7–18 Star formation occurs in dense regions of dust and gas, known as giant molecular clouds.
Almost all elements heavier than hydrogen and helium were created inside the cores of stars.
Over time, this hydrogen fuel is completely converted into helium, and the star begins to evolve.
Being stored in plants reduces the long-term cost as they can be disseminated without the need for cold storage, don't need to be purified, and have long term stability.
As of 2018 only three genetically modified animals have been approved, all in the USA.
Canada: Brainwaving The first transgenic mammals were produced by injecting viral DNA into embryos and then implanting the embryos in females.
The development of the CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing system as a cheap and fast way of directly modifying germ cells, effectively halving the amount of time needed to develop genetically modified mammals.
Genetically modified mice have been the most common mammals used in biomedical research, as they are cheap and easy to manipulate.
In 2009, scientists announced that they had successfully transferred a gene into a primate species (marmosets) for the first time.
Medical and dental x-ray imagers use of cobalt-60 or other x-ray sources.
Both contain a small source of 241Am that gives rise to a small constant current.
Another use in insect control is the sterile insect technique, where male insects are sterilized by radiation and released, so they have no offspring, to reduce the population.
The radiation sources used include radioisotope gamma ray sources, X-ray generators and electron accelerators.
As such it is also used on non-food items, such as medical hardware, plastics, tubes for gas-pipelines, hoses for floor-heating, shrink-foils for food packaging, automobile parts, wires and cables (isolation), tires, and even gemstones.
Microorganisms can no longer proliferate and continue their malignant or pathogenic activities.
In that state, each person would have a right, or license, to everything in the world.
Published in 1762, it became one of the most influential works of political philosophy in the Western tradition.
Those who think themselves the masters of others are indeed greater slaves than they."
The industrial revolution produced a parallel revolution in political thought.
In the mid-19th century, Marxism was developed, and socialism in general gained increasing popular support, mostly from the urban working class.
Unlike Marx who believed in historical materialism, Hegel believed in the Phenomenology of Spirit.
This is just what Zeno sought to prove.
In the minds of the Greeks, disproving the validity of one view did not necessarily prove the validity of another, and therefore further investigation had to occur.
A magnitude “...was not a number but stood for entities such as line segments, angles, areas, volumes, and time which could vary, as we would say, continuously.
Because no quantitative values were assigned to magnitudes, Eudoxus was then able to account for both commensurable and incommensurable ratios by defining a ratio in terms of its magnitude, and proportion as an equality between two ratios.
This incommensurability is dealt with in Euclid's Elements, Book X, Proposition 9.
In fact, in many cases algebraic conceptions were reformulated into geometric terms.
She was interviewed in the television documentary series Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film (1980).
She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1720 Vine Street.
At the Cannes festival, Gish won a 10-minute standing ovation from the audience.
The episode "Marry for Murder" was broadcast on September 9, 1943.
She was awarded an Academy Honorary Award in 1971, and in 1984 she received an AFI Life Achievement Award.
The University awarded Gish the honorary degree of Doctor of Performing Arts the next day.
This new era would involve many new technological developments, such as mechanical recording.
Current Anthropology 43(Supplement):S5-17.Schieffelin, Bambi B. 2006.
Woolard, in her overview of "code switching", or the systematic practice of alternating linguistic varieties within a conversation or even a single utterance, finds the underlying question anthropologists ask of the practice—Why do they do that?—reflects a dominant linguistic ideology.
Other linguists have carried out research in the areas of language contact, language endangerment, and 'English as a global language'.
The work of Joel Kuipers develops this theme vis-a-vis the island of Sumba, Indonesia.
He feels, in fact, that the exemplary center idea is one of linguistic anthropology's three most important findings.
The dominant classification system is called the Linnaean taxonomy.
Understanding the structure and function of cells is fundamental to all of the biological sciences.
It focuses on how organs and organ systems work together in the bodies of humans and animals, in addition to how they work independently.
Physiological studies have traditionally been divided into plant physiology and animal physiology, but some principles of physiology are universal, no matter what particular organism is being studied.
For example, it generally involves scientists who have special training in particular organisms such as mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, or entomology, but use those organisms as systems to answer general questions about evolution.
Ethologists have been particularly concerned with the evolution of behavior and the understanding of behavior in terms of the theory of natural selection.
The ejection of the outer layers forms a planetary nebula.
This is an 11-year oscillation in sunspot number.
The Sun has also undergone periodic changes in luminosity that can have a significant impact on the Earth.
Above this layer is a thin region known as the chromosphere.
Above the core is the radiation zone, where the plasma conveys the energy flux by means of radiation.
A solar wind of plasma particles constantly streams outward from the Sun until, at the outermost limit of the Solar System, it reaches the heliopause.
Stable expression has been accomplished in sheep, pigs, rats and other animals.
Human alpha-1-antitrypsin is another protein that has been produced from goats and is used in treating humans with this deficiency.
Pig lungs from genetically modified pigs are being considered for transplantation into humans.
Animals have been engineered to grow faster, be healthier and resist diseases.
A GM pig called Enviropig was created with the capability of digesting plant phosphorus more efficiently than conventional pigs.
This could potentially benefit mothers who cannot produce breast milk but want their children to have breast milk rather than formula.
Plants cannot continue the natural ripening or aging process.
The specialty of processing food by ionizing radiation is the fact, that the energy density per atomic transition is very high, it can cleave molecules and induce ionization (hence the name) which cannot be achieved by mere heating.
However, the use of the term, cold pasteurization, to describe irradiated foods is controversial, because pasteurization and irradiation are fundamentally different processes, although the intended end results can in some cases be similar.
Marie Curie died from aplastic anemia which resulted from her high levels of exposure.
Approximately half of the deaths from Hiroshima and Nagasaki died two to five years afterward from radiation exposure.
A nuclear meltdown refers to the more serious hazard of releasing nuclear material into the surrounding environment.
In the Anglo-American world, anti-imperialism and pluralism began gaining currency at the turn of the 20th century.
This was the time of Jean-Paul Sartre and Louis Althusser, and the victories of Mao Zedong in China and Fidel Castro in Cuba, as well as the events of May 1968, led to increased interest in revolutionary ideology, especially by the New Left.
Colonialism and racism were important issues that arose.
The rise of feminism, LGBT social movements and the end of colonial rule and of the political exclusion of such minorities as African Americans and sexual minorities in the developed world has led to feminist, postcolonial, and multicultural thought becoming significant.
Rawls used a thought experiment, the original position, in which representative parties choose principles of justice for the basic structure of society from behind a veil of ignorance.
Contemporaneously with the rise of analytic ethics in Anglo-American thought, in Europe, several new lines of philosophy directed at the critique of existing societies arose between the 1950s and 1980s.
The realization that some basic conception within the existing theory was at odds with reality necessitated a complete and thorough investigation of the axioms and assumptions that underlie that theory.
However, historian Carl Benjamin Boyer writes that "such claims are not well substantiated and unlikely to be true".
Mathematicians like Brahmagupta (in 628 AD) and Bhāskara I (in 629 AD) made contributions in this area as did other mathematicians who followed.
The year 1872 saw the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil Ernst Kossak), Eduard Heine (Crelle's Journal, 74), Georg Cantor (Annalen, 5), and Richard Dedekind.
Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of all rational numbers, separating them into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
Dirichlet also added to the general theory, as have numerous contributors to the applications of the subject.
Following Gish's 1993 death, the University raised funds to enlarge its gallery to display memorabilia received from Gish's estate.
The association between herself and D. W. Griffith was so close that some suspected a romantic connection, an issue never acknowledged by Gish, although several of their associates were certain they were at least briefly involved.
In the 1920s, Gish's association with Duell became something of a tabloid scandal when he sued her and made the details of their relationship public.
George Jean Nathan praised Gish's acting glowingly—comparing her to Eleonora Duse.
During the period of political turmoil in the US that lasted from the outbreak of World War II in Europe until the attack on Pearl Harbor, she maintained an outspoken non-interventionist stance.
Joseph Frank Keaton (October 4, 1895 – February 1, 1966), known professionally as Buster Keaton, was an American actor, comedian, film director, producer, screenwriter, and stunt performer.
Therefore, after a couple generations these languages may no longer be spoken.
To follow best practices of documentation, these records should be clearly annotated and kept safe within an archive of some kind.
Language revitalization is the practice of bringing a language back into common use.
The course aims to educate indigenous and non-indigenous students about the Lenape language and culture.
Encouraging those who already know the language to use it, increasing the domains of usage, and increasing the overall prestige of the language are all components of reclamation.
Social anthropology is the study of patterns of behaviour in human societies and cultures.
While researchers practice techniques specific to molecular biology, it is common to combine these with methods from genetics and biochemistry.
Biological systematics is the study of the diversification of living forms, both past and present, and the relationships among living things through time.
Phylogenetic trees of species and higher taxa are used to study the evolution of traits (e.g., anatomical or molecular characteristics) and the distribution of organisms (biogeography).
Biological systematics classifies species by using three specific branches.
Experimental systematics identifies and classifies animals based on the evolutionary units that comprise a species, as well as their importance in evolution itself.
Explaining the biodiversity of the planet and its organisms.
The planets were formed 4.6 billion years ago in the protoplanetary disk that surrounded the early Sun.
The planets continued to sweep up, or eject, the remaining matter during a period of intense bombardment, evidenced by the many impact craters on the Moon.
This process can form a stony or metallic core, surrounded by a mantle and an outer crust.
Some planets and moons accumulate enough heat to drive geologic processes such as volcanism and tectonics.
Astrostatistics is the application of statistics to astrophysics to the analysis of a vast amount of observational astrophysical data.
Cosmochemistry is the study of the chemicals found within the Solar System, including the origins of the elements and variations in the isotope ratios.
There have been suggestions that genetic engineering could be used to bring animals back from extinction.
It has been used to treat genetic disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, and Leber's congenital amaurosis.
Germline gene therapy results in any change being inheritable, which has raised concerns within the scientific community.
Aquaculture is a growing industry, currently providing over half the consumed fish worldwide.
Several groups have been developing zebrafish to detect pollution by attaching fluorescent proteins to genes activated by the presence of pollutants.
It was originally developed by one of the groups to detect pollution, but is now part of the ornamental fish trade, becoming the first genetically modified animal to become publicly available as a pet when in 2003 it was introduced for sale in the USA.
Military reactors that experienced similar accidents were Windscale in the United Kingdom and SL-1 in the United States.
Another topic of transhumanist research is how to protect humanity against existential risks, such as nuclear war or asteroid collision.
The assertion would lay the intellectual groundwork for the British philosopher Max More to begin articulating the principles of transhumanism as a futurist philosophy in 1990, and organizing in California a school of thought that has since grown into the worldwide transhumanist movement.
In the Discourse, Descartes envisioned a new kind of medicine that could grant both physical immortality and stronger minds.
St. Leon may have provided inspiration for his daughter Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein.
In particular, he was interested in the development of the science of eugenics, ectogenesis (creating and sustaining life in an artificial environment), and the application of genetics to improve human characteristics, such as health and intelligence.
Along somewhat different lines, a number of other continental thinkers—still largely influenced by Marxism—put new emphases on structuralism and on a "return to Hegel".
Another debate developed around the (distinct) criticisms of liberal political theory made by Michael Walzer, Michael Sandel and Charles Taylor.
Communitarians tend to support greater local control as well as economic and social policies which encourage the growth of social capital.
A pair of overlapping political perspectives arising toward the end of the 20th century are republicanism (or neo- or civic-republicanism) and the capability approach.
To a republican the mere status as a slave, regardless of how that slave is treated, is objectionable.
Both the capability approach and republicanism treat choice as something which must be resourced.
This asserts that every integer has a unique factorization into primes.
To show this, suppose we divide integers n by m (where m is nonzero).
If 0 never occurs, then the algorithm can run at most m − 1 steps without using any remainder more than once.
In mathematics, the natural numbers are those used for counting (as in "there are six coins on the table") and ordering (as in "this is the third largest city in the country").
These chains of extensions make the natural numbers canonically embedded (identified) in the other number systems.
The first major advance in abstraction was the use of numerals to represent numbers.
