Lillian Diana Gish (October 14, 1893 – February 27, 1993) was an American actress, director and screenwriter.
Gish was a prominent film star from 1912 into the 1920s, being particularly associated with the films of director D. W. Griffith.
She also did considerable television work from the early 1950s into the 1980s, and closed her career playing opposite Bette Davis in the 1987 film The Whales of August.
The first several generations of Gishes were Dunkard ministers.
Their mother opened the Majestic Candy Kitchen, and the girls helped sell popcorn and candy to patrons of the old Majestic Theater, located next door.
The seventeen-year-old Lillian traveled to Shawnee, Oklahoma, where James's brother Alfred Grant Gish and his wife, Maude, lived.
An example of multi-sited ethnography is Nancy Scheper-Hughes' work on the international black market for the trade of human organs.
Research in kinship studies often crosses over into different anthropological subfields including medical, feminist, and public anthropology.
That is the matrix into which human children are born in the great majority of cases, and their first words are often kinship terms.
There are stark differences between communities in terms of marital practice and value, leaving much room for anthropological fieldwork.
The marital practice found in most cultures, however, is monogamy, where one woman is married to one man.
There are similar foundational differences where the act of procreation is concerned.
Only derived characters, such as the spine-producing areoles of cacti, provide evidence for descent from a common ancestor.
The difference is that the genetic code itself is used to decide evolutionary relationships, instead of being used indirectly via the characters it gives rise to.
Genetic evidence suggests that the true evolutionary relationship of multicelled organisms is as shown in the cladogram below – fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants.
Investigating how plant species are related to each other allows botanists to better understand the process of evolution in plants.
Although humans have always been interested in the natural history of the animals they saw around them, and made use of this knowledge to domesticate certain species, the formal study of zoology can be said to have originated with Aristotle.
Modern zoology has its origins during the Renaissance and early modern period, with Carl Linnaeus, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Robert Hooke, Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel and many others.
Observations of the large-scale structure of the Universe, a branch known as physical cosmology, have provided a deep understanding of the formation and evolution of the cosmos.
A hierarchical structure of matter began to form from minute variations in the mass density of space.
Gravitational aggregations clustered into filaments, leaving voids in the gaps.
Various fields of physics are crucial to studying the universe.
Finally, the latter is important for the understanding of the large-scale structure of the cosmos.
As the name suggests, an elliptical galaxy has the cross-sectional shape of an ellipse.
The first genetically modified ornamentals commercialized altered color.
Other genetically modified ornamentals include Chrysanthemum and Petunia.
The papaya ringspot virus devastated papaya trees in Hawaii in the twentieth century until transgenic papaya plants were given pathogen-derived resistance.
The second generation of crops aimed to improve the quality, often by altering the nutrient profile.
GM crops contribute by improving harvests through reducing insect pressure, increasing nutrient value and tolerating different abiotic stresses.
The majority of GM crops have been modified to be resistant to selected herbicides, usually a glyphosate or glufosinate based one.
Such a weapon must hold one or more subcritical fissile masses stable for deployment, then induce criticality (create a critical mass) for detonation.
One isotope of uranium, namely uranium-235, is naturally occurring and sufficiently unstable, but it is always found mixed with the more stable isotope uranium-238.
Alternatively, the element plutonium possesses an isotope that is sufficiently unstable for this process to be usable.
They detonated the first nuclear weapon in a test code-named "Trinity", near Alamogordo, New Mexico, on July 16, 1945.
In the wake of unprecedented devastation and casualties from a single weapon, the Japanese government soon surrendered, ending World War II.
Just over four years later, on August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated its first fission weapon.
It can also be understood as the free market idea applied to international trade.
The most outspoken critic of the church in France was François Marie Arouet de Voltaire, a representative figure of the enlightenment.
My one regret in dying is that I cannot aid you in this noble enterprise, the finest and most respectable which the human mind can point out."
Locke stood to refute Sir Robert Filmer's paternally founded political theory in favor of a natural system based on nature in a particular given system.
Unlike Aquinas's preponderant view on the salvation of the soul from original sin, Locke believes man's mind comes into this world as tabula rasa.
Though one could be worried about restrictions on liberty by benevolent monarchs or aristocrats, the traditional worry is that when rulers are politically unaccountable to the governed they will rule in their own interests, rather than the interests of the governed.
The realization that some basic conception within the existing theory was at odds with reality necessitated a complete and thorough investigation of the axioms and assumptions that underlie that theory.
However, historian Carl Benjamin Boyer writes that "such claims are not well substantiated and unlikely to be true".
Mathematicians like Brahmagupta (in 628 AD) and Bhāskara I (in 629 AD) made contributions in this area as did other mathematicians who followed.
The year 1872 saw the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil Ernst Kossak), Eduard Heine (Crelle's Journal, 74), Georg Cantor (Annalen, 5), and Richard Dedekind.
Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of all rational numbers, separating them into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
Dirichlet also added to the general theory, as have numerous contributors to the applications of the subject.
She was interviewed in the television documentary series Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film (1980).
She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1720 Vine Street.
At the Cannes festival, Gish won a 10-minute standing ovation from the audience.
The episode "Marry for Murder" was broadcast on September 9, 1943.
She was awarded an Academy Honorary Award in 1971, and in 1984 she received an AFI Life Achievement Award.
The University awarded Gish the honorary degree of Doctor of Performing Arts the next day.
At this time, there was the arrival of "Third World feminism", a movement that argued kinship studies could not examine the gender relations of developing countries in isolation, and must pay respect to racial and economic nuance as well.
In Jamaica, marriage as an institution is often substituted for a series of partners, as poor women cannot rely on regular financial contributions in a climate of economic instability.
With this technology, questions of kinship have emerged over the difference between biological and genetic relatedness, as gestational surrogates can provide a biological environment for the embryo while the genetic ties remain with a third party.
There have also been issues of reproductive tourism and bodily commodification, as individuals seek economic security through hormonal stimulation and egg harvesting, which are potentially harmful procedures.
One critique is that, as its inception, the framework of kinship studies was far too structured and formulaic, relying on dense language and stringent rules.
Much of this development can be attributed to the rise in anthropologists working outside of academia and the increasing importance of globalization in both institutions and the field of anthropology.
The dominant classification system is called the Linnaean taxonomy.
Understanding the structure and function of cells is fundamental to all of the biological sciences.
It focuses on how organs and organ systems work together in the bodies of humans and animals, in addition to how they work independently.
Physiological studies have traditionally been divided into plant physiology and animal physiology, but some principles of physiology are universal, no matter what particular organism is being studied.
For example, it generally involves scientists who have special training in particular organisms such as mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, or entomology, but use those organisms as systems to answer general questions about evolution.
Ethologists have been particularly concerned with the evolution of behavior and the understanding of behavior in terms of the theory of natural selection.
The ejection of the outer layers forms a planetary nebula.
This is an 11-year oscillation in sunspot number.
The Sun has also undergone periodic changes in luminosity that can have a significant impact on the Earth.
Above this layer is a thin region known as the chromosphere.
Above the core is the radiation zone, where the plasma conveys the energy flux by means of radiation.
A solar wind of plasma particles constantly streams outward from the Sun until, at the outermost limit of the Solar System, it reaches the heliopause.
Stable expression has been accomplished in sheep, pigs, rats and other animals.
Human alpha-1-antitrypsin is another protein that has been produced from goats and is used in treating humans with this deficiency.
Pig lungs from genetically modified pigs are being considered for transplantation into humans.
Animals have been engineered to grow faster, be healthier and resist diseases.
A GM pig called Enviropig was created with the capability of digesting plant phosphorus more efficiently than conventional pigs.
This could potentially benefit mothers who cannot produce breast milk but want their children to have breast milk rather than formula.
Plants cannot continue the natural ripening or aging process.
The specialty of processing food by ionizing radiation is the fact, that the energy density per atomic transition is very high, it can cleave molecules and induce ionization (hence the name) which cannot be achieved by mere heating.
However, the use of the term, cold pasteurization, to describe irradiated foods is controversial, because pasteurization and irradiation are fundamentally different processes, although the intended end results can in some cases be similar.
Marie Curie died from aplastic anemia which resulted from her high levels of exposure.
Approximately half of the deaths from Hiroshima and Nagasaki died two to five years afterward from radiation exposure.
A nuclear meltdown refers to the more serious hazard of releasing nuclear material into the surrounding environment.
In the Anglo-American world, anti-imperialism and pluralism began gaining currency at the turn of the 20th century.
This was the time of Jean-Paul Sartre and Louis Althusser, and the victories of Mao Zedong in China and Fidel Castro in Cuba, as well as the events of May 1968, led to increased interest in revolutionary ideology, especially by the New Left.
Colonialism and racism were important issues that arose.
The rise of feminism, LGBT social movements and the end of colonial rule and of the political exclusion of such minorities as African Americans and sexual minorities in the developed world has led to feminist, postcolonial, and multicultural thought becoming significant.
Rawls used a thought experiment, the original position, in which representative parties choose principles of justice for the basic structure of society from behind a veil of ignorance.
Contemporaneously with the rise of analytic ethics in Anglo-American thought, in Europe, several new lines of philosophy directed at the critique of existing societies arose between the 1950s and 1980s.
Since c is even, dividing c by 2 yields an integer.
Substituting 4y2 for c2 in the first equation (c2 = 2b2) gives us 4y2= 2b2.
Since b2 is even, b must be even.
However this contradicts the assumption that they have no common factors.
Hippasus, however, was not lauded for his efforts: according to one legend, he made his discovery while out at sea, and was subsequently thrown overboard by his fellow Pythagoreans “…for having produced an element in the universe which denied the…doctrine that all phenomena in the universe can be reduced to whole numbers and their ratios.”
For example, consider a line segment: this segment can be split in half, that half split in half, the half of the half in half, and so on.
