Lillian Diana Gish (October 14, 1893 – February 27, 1993) was an American actress, director and screenwriter.
Gish was a prominent film star from 1912 into the 1920s, being particularly associated with the films of director D. W. Griffith.
She also did considerable television work from the early 1950s into the 1980s, and closed her career playing opposite Bette Davis in the 1987 film The Whales of August.
The first several generations of Gishes were Dunkard ministers.
Their mother opened the Majestic Candy Kitchen, and the girls helped sell popcorn and candy to patrons of the old Majestic Theater, located next door.
The seventeen-year-old Lillian traveled to Shawnee, Oklahoma, where James's brother Alfred Grant Gish and his wife, Maude, lived.
An example of multi-sited ethnography is Nancy Scheper-Hughes' work on the international black market for the trade of human organs.
Research in kinship studies often crosses over into different anthropological subfields including medical, feminist, and public anthropology.
That is the matrix into which human children are born in the great majority of cases, and their first words are often kinship terms.
There are stark differences between communities in terms of marital practice and value, leaving much room for anthropological fieldwork.
The marital practice found in most cultures, however, is monogamy, where one woman is married to one man.
There are similar foundational differences where the act of procreation is concerned.
Only derived characters, such as the spine-producing areoles of cacti, provide evidence for descent from a common ancestor.
The difference is that the genetic code itself is used to decide evolutionary relationships, instead of being used indirectly via the characters it gives rise to.
Genetic evidence suggests that the true evolutionary relationship of multicelled organisms is as shown in the cladogram below – fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants.
Investigating how plant species are related to each other allows botanists to better understand the process of evolution in plants.
Although humans have always been interested in the natural history of the animals they saw around them, and made use of this knowledge to domesticate certain species, the formal study of zoology can be said to have originated with Aristotle.
Modern zoology has its origins during the Renaissance and early modern period, with Carl Linnaeus, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Robert Hooke, Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel and many others.
Observations of the large-scale structure of the Universe, a branch known as physical cosmology, have provided a deep understanding of the formation and evolution of the cosmos.
A hierarchical structure of matter began to form from minute variations in the mass density of space.
Gravitational aggregations clustered into filaments, leaving voids in the gaps.
Various fields of physics are crucial to studying the universe.
Finally, the latter is important for the understanding of the large-scale structure of the cosmos.
As the name suggests, an elliptical galaxy has the cross-sectional shape of an ellipse.
The first genetically modified ornamentals commercialized altered color.
Other genetically modified ornamentals include Chrysanthemum and Petunia.
The papaya ringspot virus devastated papaya trees in Hawaii in the twentieth century until transgenic papaya plants were given pathogen-derived resistance.
The second generation of crops aimed to improve the quality, often by altering the nutrient profile.
GM crops contribute by improving harvests through reducing insect pressure, increasing nutrient value and tolerating different abiotic stresses.
The majority of GM crops have been modified to be resistant to selected herbicides, usually a glyphosate or glufosinate based one.
Such a weapon must hold one or more subcritical fissile masses stable for deployment, then induce criticality (create a critical mass) for detonation.
One isotope of uranium, namely uranium-235, is naturally occurring and sufficiently unstable, but it is always found mixed with the more stable isotope uranium-238.
Alternatively, the element plutonium possesses an isotope that is sufficiently unstable for this process to be usable.
They detonated the first nuclear weapon in a test code-named "Trinity", near Alamogordo, New Mexico, on July 16, 1945.
In the wake of unprecedented devastation and casualties from a single weapon, the Japanese government soon surrendered, ending World War II.
Just over four years later, on August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated its first fission weapon.
It can also be understood as the free market idea applied to international trade.
The most outspoken critic of the church in France was François Marie Arouet de Voltaire, a representative figure of the enlightenment.
My one regret in dying is that I cannot aid you in this noble enterprise, the finest and most respectable which the human mind can point out."
Locke stood to refute Sir Robert Filmer's paternally founded political theory in favor of a natural system based on nature in a particular given system.
Unlike Aquinas's preponderant view on the salvation of the soul from original sin, Locke believes man's mind comes into this world as tabula rasa.
Though one could be worried about restrictions on liberty by benevolent monarchs or aristocrats, the traditional worry is that when rulers are politically unaccountable to the governed they will rule in their own interests, rather than the interests of the governed.
This is just what Zeno sought to prove.
In the minds of the Greeks, disproving the validity of one view did not necessarily prove the validity of another, and therefore further investigation had to occur.
A magnitude “...was not a number but stood for entities such as line segments, angles, areas, volumes, and time which could vary, as we would say, continuously.
Because no quantitative values were assigned to magnitudes, Eudoxus was then able to account for both commensurable and incommensurable ratios by defining a ratio in terms of its magnitude, and proportion as an equality between two ratios.
This incommensurability is dealt with in Euclid's Elements, Book X, Proposition 9.
In fact, in many cases algebraic conceptions were reformulated into geometric terms.
Her father died in Norman, Oklahoma, in 1912, but she had returned to Ohio a few months before this.
When Lillian and Dorothy were old enough they joined the theatre, often traveling separately in different productions.
Gish continued to perform on the stage, and in 1913, during a run of A Good Little Devil, she collapsed from anemia.
Her performance in these frigid conditions gave her lasting nerve damage in several fingers.
He utilized her expressive talents to the fullest, developing her into a suffering yet strong heroine.
She directed her sister Dorothy in one film, Remodeling Her Husband (1920), when D. W. Griffith took his unit on location.
The shift can be traced back to the 1960s, with the reassessment of kinship's basic principles offered by Edmund Leach, Rodney Neeham, David Schneider, and others.
This shift was progressed further by the emergence of second-wave feminism in the early 1970s, which introduced ideas of marital oppression, sexual autonomy, and domestic subordination.
At this time, there was the arrival of "Third World feminism", a movement that argued kinship studies could not examine the gender relations of developing countries in isolation, and must pay respect to racial and economic nuance as well.
In Jamaica, marriage as an institution is often substituted for a series of partners, as poor women cannot rely on regular financial contributions in a climate of economic instability.
With this technology, questions of kinship have emerged over the difference between biological and genetic relatedness, as gestational surrogates can provide a biological environment for the embryo while the genetic ties remain with a third party.
There have also been issues of reproductive tourism and bodily commodification, as individuals seek economic security through hormonal stimulation and egg harvesting, which are potentially harmful procedures.
There are cave paintings, engravings and sculptures in France dating back 15,000 years showing bison, horses and deer in carefully rendered detail.
Ancient knowledge of wildlife is illustrated by the realistic depictions of wild and domestic animals in the Near East, Mesopotamia and Egypt, including husbandry practices and techniques, hunting and fishing.
Aristotle, in the fourth century BC, looked at animals as living organisms, studying their structure, development and vital phenomena.
Four hundred years later, Roman physician Galen dissected animals to study their anatomy and the function of the different parts, because the dissection of human cadavers was prohibited at the time.
In Europe, Galen's work on anatomy remained largely unsurpassed and unchallenged up until the 16th century.
Having previously been the realm of gentlemen naturalists, over the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, zoology became an increasingly professional scientific discipline.
Elliptical galaxies are more commonly found at the core of galactic clusters, and may have been formed through mergers of large galaxies.
Spiral galaxies are typically surrounded by a halo of older stars.
About a quarter of all galaxies are irregular, and the peculiar shapes of such galaxies may be the result of gravitational interaction.
A radio galaxy is an active galaxy that is very luminous in the radio portion of the spectrum, and is emitting immense plumes or lobes of gas.
The large-scale structure of the cosmos is represented by groups and clusters of galaxies.
In the center of the Milky Way is the core, a bar-shaped bulge with what is believed to be a supermassive black hole at its center.
A few use the genes that encode for vegetative insecticidal proteins.
Less than one percent of GM crops contained other traits, which include providing virus resistance, delaying senescence and altering the plants composition.
Plants and plant cells have been genetically engineered for production of biopharmaceuticals in bioreactors, a process known as pharming.
Many drugs also contain natural plant ingredients and the pathways that lead to their production have been genetically altered or transferred to other plant species to produce greater volume.
They also pose less risk of being contaminated.
Vaccines are expensive to produce, transport, and administer, so having a system that could produce them locally would allow greater access to poorer and developing areas.
A radiological weapons is a type of nuclear weapon designed to distribute hazardous nuclear material in enemy areas.
While considered useless by a conventional military, such a weapon raises concerns over nuclear terrorism.
The treaty permitted underground nuclear testing.
After signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in 1996 (which had as of 2011 not entered into force), all of these states have pledged to discontinue all nuclear testing.
Throughout the Cold War, the opposing powers had huge nuclear arsenals, sufficient to kill hundreds of millions of people.
Currently nuclear power provides approximately 15.7% of the world's electricity (in 2004) and is used to propel aircraft carriers, icebreakers and submarines (so far economics and fears in some ports have prevented the use of nuclear power in transport ships).
Justice involves duties that are perfect duties—that is, duties that are correlated with rights.
He uses, On Liberty to discuss gender equality in society.
The Liberty of the Ancients was participatory republican liberty, which gave the citizens the right to directly influence politics through debates and votes in the public assembly.
Ancient Liberty was also limited to relatively small and homogenous societies, in which the people could be conveniently gathered together in one place to transact public affairs.
Instead, the voters would elect representatives, who would deliberate in Parliament on behalf of the people and would save citizens from the necessity of daily political involvement.
In Leviathan, Hobbes set out his doctrine of the foundation of states and legitimate governments and creating an objective science of morality.
The realization that some basic conception within the existing theory was at odds with reality necessitated a complete and thorough investigation of the axioms and assumptions that underlie that theory.
However, historian Carl Benjamin Boyer writes that "such claims are not well substantiated and unlikely to be true".
Mathematicians like Brahmagupta (in 628 AD) and Bhāskara I (in 629 AD) made contributions in this area as did other mathematicians who followed.
The year 1872 saw the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil Ernst Kossak), Eduard Heine (Crelle's Journal, 74), Georg Cantor (Annalen, 5), and Richard Dedekind.
Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of all rational numbers, separating them into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
Dirichlet also added to the general theory, as have numerous contributors to the applications of the subject.
She turned down the money, requesting a more modest wage and a percentage so that the studio could use the funds to increase the quality of her films — hiring the best actors, screenwriters, etc.
Many of the silent era's leading ladies, such as Gish and Pickford, had been wholesome and innocent, but by the early 1930s (after the full adoption of sound and before the Motion Picture Production Code was enforced) these roles were perceived as outdated.
Louis Mayer wanted to stage a scandal ("knock her off her pedestal") to garner public sympathy for Gish, but Lillian didn't want to act both on screen and off, and returned to her first love, the theater.
Returning to movies, Gish was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1946 for Duel in the Sun.
She was considered for various roles in Gone with the Wind ranging from Ellen O'Hara, Scarlett's mother (which went to Barbara O'Neil), to prostitute Belle Watling (which went to Ona Munson).
She appeared as Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna in the short-lived 1965 Broadway musical Anya.
One critique is that, as its inception, the framework of kinship studies was far too structured and formulaic, relying on dense language and stringent rules.
Much of this development can be attributed to the rise in anthropologists working outside of academia and the increasing importance of globalization in both institutions and the field of anthropology.
The two types of institutions defined in the field of anthropology are total institutions and social institutions.
Anthropology of institutions may analyze labor unions, businesses ranging from small enterprises to corporations, government, medical organizations, education, prisons, and financial institutions.
Institutional anthropologists may study the relationship between organizations or between an organization and other parts of society.
More specifically, anthropologists may analyze specific events within an institution, perform semiotic investigations, or analyze the mechanisms by which knowledge and culture are organized and dispersed.
These developments, as well as the results from embryology and paleontology, were synthesized in the 1859 publication of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection; in this Darwin placed the theory of organic evolution on a new footing, by explaining the processes by which it can occur, and providing observational evidence that it had done so.
Darwin gave a new direction to morphology and physiology, by uniting them in a common biological theory: the theory of organic evolution.
An early necessity was to identify the organisms and group them according to their characteristics, differences and relationships, and this is the field of the taxonomist.
His ideas were centered on the morphology of animals.
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
Homo is the genus, and sapiens the specific epithet, both of them combined make up the species name.
The disk is surrounded by a spheroid halo of older, population II stars, as well as relatively dense concentrations of stars known as globular clusters.
These begin as a compact pre-stellar core or dark nebulae, which concentrate and collapse (in volumes determined by the Jeans length) to form compact protostars.
These clusters gradually disperse, and the stars join the population of the Milky Way.
7–18 Star formation occurs in dense regions of dust and gas, known as giant molecular clouds.
Almost all elements heavier than hydrogen and helium were created inside the cores of stars.
Over time, this hydrogen fuel is completely converted into helium, and the star begins to evolve.
Being stored in plants reduces the long-term cost as they can be disseminated without the need for cold storage, don't need to be purified, and have long term stability.
As of 2018 only three genetically modified animals have been approved, all in the USA.
Canada: Brainwaving The first transgenic mammals were produced by injecting viral DNA into embryos and then implanting the embryos in females.
The development of the CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing system as a cheap and fast way of directly modifying germ cells, effectively halving the amount of time needed to develop genetically modified mammals.
Genetically modified mice have been the most common mammals used in biomedical research, as they are cheap and easy to manipulate.
In 2009, scientists announced that they had successfully transferred a gene into a primate species (marmosets) for the first time.
Medical and dental x-ray imagers use of cobalt-60 or other x-ray sources.
Both contain a small source of 241Am that gives rise to a small constant current.
Another use in insect control is the sterile insect technique, where male insects are sterilized by radiation and released, so they have no offspring, to reduce the population.
The radiation sources used include radioisotope gamma ray sources, X-ray generators and electron accelerators.
As such it is also used on non-food items, such as medical hardware, plastics, tubes for gas-pipelines, hoses for floor-heating, shrink-foils for food packaging, automobile parts, wires and cables (isolation), tires, and even gemstones.
Microorganisms can no longer proliferate and continue their malignant or pathogenic activities.
In that state, each person would have a right, or license, to everything in the world.
Published in 1762, it became one of the most influential works of political philosophy in the Western tradition.
Those who think themselves the masters of others are indeed greater slaves than they."
The industrial revolution produced a parallel revolution in political thought.
In the mid-19th century, Marxism was developed, and socialism in general gained increasing popular support, mostly from the urban working class.
Unlike Marx who believed in historical materialism, Hegel believed in the Phenomenology of Spirit.
This asserts that every integer has a unique factorization into primes.
To show this, suppose we divide integers n by m (where m is nonzero).
If 0 never occurs, then the algorithm can run at most m − 1 steps without using any remainder more than once.
In mathematics, the natural numbers are those used for counting (as in "there are six coins on the table") and ordering (as in "this is the third largest city in the country").
These chains of extensions make the natural numbers canonically embedded (identified) in the other number systems.
The first major advance in abstraction was the use of numerals to represent numbers.
