She was interviewed in the television documentary series Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film (1980).
She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1720 Vine Street.
At the Cannes festival, Gish won a 10-minute standing ovation from the audience.
The episode "Marry for Murder" was broadcast on September 9, 1943.
She was awarded an Academy Honorary Award in 1971, and in 1984 she received an AFI Life Achievement Award.
The University awarded Gish the honorary degree of Doctor of Performing Arts the next day.
This new era would involve many new technological developments, such as mechanical recording.
Current Anthropology 43(Supplement):S5-17.Schieffelin, Bambi B. 2006.
Woolard, in her overview of "code switching", or the systematic practice of alternating linguistic varieties within a conversation or even a single utterance, finds the underlying question anthropologists ask of the practice—Why do they do that?—reflects a dominant linguistic ideology.
Other linguists have carried out research in the areas of language contact, language endangerment, and 'English as a global language'.
The work of Joel Kuipers develops this theme vis-a-vis the island of Sumba, Indonesia.
He feels, in fact, that the exemplary center idea is one of linguistic anthropology's three most important findings.
The dominant classification system is called the Linnaean taxonomy.
Understanding the structure and function of cells is fundamental to all of the biological sciences.
It focuses on how organs and organ systems work together in the bodies of humans and animals, in addition to how they work independently.
Physiological studies have traditionally been divided into plant physiology and animal physiology, but some principles of physiology are universal, no matter what particular organism is being studied.
For example, it generally involves scientists who have special training in particular organisms such as mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, or entomology, but use those organisms as systems to answer general questions about evolution.
Ethologists have been particularly concerned with the evolution of behavior and the understanding of behavior in terms of the theory of natural selection.
The ejection of the outer layers forms a planetary nebula.
This is an 11-year oscillation in sunspot number.
The Sun has also undergone periodic changes in luminosity that can have a significant impact on the Earth.
Above this layer is a thin region known as the chromosphere.
Above the core is the radiation zone, where the plasma conveys the energy flux by means of radiation.
A solar wind of plasma particles constantly streams outward from the Sun until, at the outermost limit of the Solar System, it reaches the heliopause.
Stable expression has been accomplished in sheep, pigs, rats and other animals.
Human alpha-1-antitrypsin is another protein that has been produced from goats and is used in treating humans with this deficiency.
Pig lungs from genetically modified pigs are being considered for transplantation into humans.
Animals have been engineered to grow faster, be healthier and resist diseases.
A GM pig called Enviropig was created with the capability of digesting plant phosphorus more efficiently than conventional pigs.
This could potentially benefit mothers who cannot produce breast milk but want their children to have breast milk rather than formula.
Plants cannot continue the natural ripening or aging process.
The specialty of processing food by ionizing radiation is the fact, that the energy density per atomic transition is very high, it can cleave molecules and induce ionization (hence the name) which cannot be achieved by mere heating.
However, the use of the term, cold pasteurization, to describe irradiated foods is controversial, because pasteurization and irradiation are fundamentally different processes, although the intended end results can in some cases be similar.
Marie Curie died from aplastic anemia which resulted from her high levels of exposure.
Approximately half of the deaths from Hiroshima and Nagasaki died two to five years afterward from radiation exposure.
A nuclear meltdown refers to the more serious hazard of releasing nuclear material into the surrounding environment.
In the Anglo-American world, anti-imperialism and pluralism began gaining currency at the turn of the 20th century.
This was the time of Jean-Paul Sartre and Louis Althusser, and the victories of Mao Zedong in China and Fidel Castro in Cuba, as well as the events of May 1968, led to increased interest in revolutionary ideology, especially by the New Left.
Colonialism and racism were important issues that arose.
The rise of feminism, LGBT social movements and the end of colonial rule and of the political exclusion of such minorities as African Americans and sexual minorities in the developed world has led to feminist, postcolonial, and multicultural thought becoming significant.
Rawls used a thought experiment, the original position, in which representative parties choose principles of justice for the basic structure of society from behind a veil of ignorance.
Contemporaneously with the rise of analytic ethics in Anglo-American thought, in Europe, several new lines of philosophy directed at the critique of existing societies arose between the 1950s and 1980s.
This standard basis makes the complex numbers a Cartesian plane, called the complex plane.
The complex numbers of absolute value one form the unit circle.
In domain coloring the output dimensions are represented by color and brightness, respectively.
Work on the problem of general polynomials ultimately led to the fundamental theorem of algebra, which shows that with complex numbers, a solution exists to every polynomial equation of degree one or higher.
Wessel's memoir appeared in the Proceedings of the Copenhagen Academy but went largely unnoticed.
Later classical writers on the general theory include Richard Dedekind, Otto Hölder, Felix Klein, Henri Poincaré, Hermann Schwarz, Karl Weierstrass and many others.
Following Gish's 1993 death, the University raised funds to enlarge its gallery to display memorabilia received from Gish's estate.
The association between herself and D. W. Griffith was so close that some suspected a romantic connection, an issue never acknowledged by Gish, although several of their associates were certain they were at least briefly involved.
In the 1920s, Gish's association with Duell became something of a tabloid scandal when he sued her and made the details of their relationship public.
George Jean Nathan praised Gish's acting glowingly—comparing her to Eleonora Duse.
During the period of political turmoil in the US that lasted from the outbreak of World War II in Europe until the attack on Pearl Harbor, she maintained an outspoken non-interventionist stance.
Joseph Frank Keaton (October 4, 1895 – February 1, 1966), known professionally as Buster Keaton, was an American actor, comedian, film director, producer, screenwriter, and stunt performer.
Therefore, after a couple generations these languages may no longer be spoken.
To follow best practices of documentation, these records should be clearly annotated and kept safe within an archive of some kind.
Language revitalization is the practice of bringing a language back into common use.
The course aims to educate indigenous and non-indigenous students about the Lenape language and culture.
Encouraging those who already know the language to use it, increasing the domains of usage, and increasing the overall prestige of the language are all components of reclamation.
Social anthropology is the study of patterns of behaviour in human societies and cultures.
While researchers practice techniques specific to molecular biology, it is common to combine these with methods from genetics and biochemistry.
Biological systematics is the study of the diversification of living forms, both past and present, and the relationships among living things through time.
Phylogenetic trees of species and higher taxa are used to study the evolution of traits (e.g., anatomical or molecular characteristics) and the distribution of organisms (biogeography).
Biological systematics classifies species by using three specific branches.
Experimental systematics identifies and classifies animals based on the evolutionary units that comprise a species, as well as their importance in evolution itself.
Explaining the biodiversity of the planet and its organisms.
The planets were formed 4.6 billion years ago in the protoplanetary disk that surrounded the early Sun.
The planets continued to sweep up, or eject, the remaining matter during a period of intense bombardment, evidenced by the many impact craters on the Moon.
This process can form a stony or metallic core, surrounded by a mantle and an outer crust.
Some planets and moons accumulate enough heat to drive geologic processes such as volcanism and tectonics.
Astrostatistics is the application of statistics to astrophysics to the analysis of a vast amount of observational astrophysical data.
Cosmochemistry is the study of the chemicals found within the Solar System, including the origins of the elements and variations in the isotope ratios.
There have been suggestions that genetic engineering could be used to bring animals back from extinction.
It has been used to treat genetic disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, and Leber's congenital amaurosis.
Germline gene therapy results in any change being inheritable, which has raised concerns within the scientific community.
Aquaculture is a growing industry, currently providing over half the consumed fish worldwide.
Several groups have been developing zebrafish to detect pollution by attaching fluorescent proteins to genes activated by the presence of pollutants.
It was originally developed by one of the groups to detect pollution, but is now part of the ornamental fish trade, becoming the first genetically modified animal to become publicly available as a pet when in 2003 it was introduced for sale in the USA.
Military reactors that experienced similar accidents were Windscale in the United Kingdom and SL-1 in the United States.
Another topic of transhumanist research is how to protect humanity against existential risks, such as nuclear war or asteroid collision.
The assertion would lay the intellectual groundwork for the British philosopher Max More to begin articulating the principles of transhumanism as a futurist philosophy in 1990, and organizing in California a school of thought that has since grown into the worldwide transhumanist movement.
In the Discourse, Descartes envisioned a new kind of medicine that could grant both physical immortality and stronger minds.
St. Leon may have provided inspiration for his daughter Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein.
In particular, he was interested in the development of the science of eugenics, ectogenesis (creating and sustaining life in an artificial environment), and the application of genetics to improve human characteristics, such as health and intelligence.
Along somewhat different lines, a number of other continental thinkers—still largely influenced by Marxism—put new emphases on structuralism and on a "return to Hegel".
Another debate developed around the (distinct) criticisms of liberal political theory made by Michael Walzer, Michael Sandel and Charles Taylor.
Communitarians tend to support greater local control as well as economic and social policies which encourage the growth of social capital.
A pair of overlapping political perspectives arising toward the end of the 20th century are republicanism (or neo- or civic-republicanism) and the capability approach.
To a republican the mere status as a slave, regardless of how that slave is treated, is objectionable.
Both the capability approach and republicanism treat choice as something which must be resourced.
The use of imaginary numbers was not widely accepted until the work of Leonhard Euler (1707–1783) and Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855).
The integers form the smallest group and the smallest ring containing the natural numbers.
It is the prototype of all objects of such algebraic structure.
Fixed length integer approximation data types (or subsets) are denoted int or Integer in several programming languages (such as Algol68, C, Java, Delphi, etc.).
These are provable properties of rational numbers and positional number systems, and are not used as definitions in mathematics.
Since the triangle is isosceles, a = b).
His career declined when he signed with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and lost his artistic independence.
Many of Keaton's films from the 1920s remain highly regarded, such as Sherlock Jr. (1924), The General (1926), and The Cameraman (1928).
His father was Joseph Hallie "Joe" Keaton, who owned a traveling show with Harry Houdini called the Mohawk Indian Medicine Company, or the Keaton Houdini Medicine Show Company, which performed on stage and sold patent medicine on the side.
In Keaton's retelling, he was six months old when the incident occurred, and Harry Houdini gave him the nickname.
The act was mainly a comedy sketch.
A suitcase handle was sewn into Keaton's clothing to aid with the constant tossing.
British and American anthropologists including Gillian Tett and Karen Ho who studied Wall Street provided an alternative explanation for the financial crisis of 2007–2010 to the technical explanations rooted in economic and political theory.
This development was bolstered by Franz Boas's introduction of cultural relativism arguing that cultures are based on different ideas about the world and can therefore only be properly understood in terms of their own standards and values.
In 1906, Congolese pygmy Ota Benga was put by American anthropologist Madison Grant in a cage in the Bronx Zoo, labelled "the missing link" between an orangutan and the "white race" — Grant, a renowned eugenicist, was also the author of The Passing of the Great Race (1916).
Anthropology grew increasingly distinct from natural history and by the end of the 19th century the discipline began to crystallize into its modern form - by 1935, for example, it was possible for T.K. Penniman to write a history of the discipline entitled A Hundred Years of Anthropology.
Non-European societies were thus seen as evolutionary "living fossils" that could be studied in order to understand the European past.
However, as Stocking notes, Tylor mainly concerned himself with describing and mapping the distribution of particular elements of culture, rather than with the larger function, and he generally seemed to assume a Victorian idea of progress rather than the idea of non-directional, multilineal cultural change proposed by later anthropologists.
Taxonomy is that part of Systematics concerned with topics (a) to (d) above.
However, in modern usage, they can all be considered synonyms of each other.
Some claim systematics alone deals specifically with relationships through time, and that it can be synonymous with phylogenetics, broadly dealing with the inferred hierarchy of organisms.
Scientific classifications are aids in recording and reporting information to other scientists and to laymen.
In biology, a species is the basic unit of classification and a taxonomic rank of an organism, as well as a unit of biodiversity.
In addition, paleontologists use the concept of the chronospecies since fossil reproduction cannot be examined.
Astronomy clubs are located throughout the world and many have programs to help their members set up and complete observational programs including those to observe all the objects in the Messier (110 objects) or Herschel 400 catalogues of points of interest in the night sky.
Most amateurs work at visible wavelengths, but a small minority experiment with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum.
A number of amateur astronomers use either homemade telescopes or use radio telescopes which were originally built for astronomy research but which are now available to amateurs (e.g. the One-Mile Telescope).
Answers to these may require the construction of new ground- and space-based instruments, and possibly new developments in theoretical and experimental physics.
A deeper understanding of the formation of stars and planets is needed.
If so, what is the explanation for the Fermi paradox?
Zebrafish are model organisms for developmental processes, regeneration, genetics, behaviour, disease mechanisms and toxicity testing.
GM fish have been developed with promoters driving an over-production of growth hormone for use in the aquaculture industry to increase the speed of development and potentially reduce fishing pressure on wild stocks.
It obtained regulatory approval in 2015, the first non-plant GMO food to be commercialized.
Drosophila have been used to study genetics and inheritance, embryonic development, learning, behavior, and aging.
Malaria-resistant mosquitoes have been developed in the laboratory by inserting a gene that reduces the development of the malaria parasite and then use homing endonucleases to rapidly spread that gene throughout the male population (known as a gene drive).
Another approach is to use a sterile insect technique, whereby males genetically engineered to be sterile out compete viable males, to reduce population numbers.
These ideas have been common transhumanist themes ever since.
In the Material and Man section of the manifesto, Noboru Kawazoe suggests that:After several decades, with the rapid progress of communication technology, every one will have a "brain wave receiver" in his ear, which conveys directly and exactly what other people think about him and vice versa.
In 1966, FM-2030 (formerly F. M. Esfandiary), a futurist who taught "new concepts of the human" at The New School, in New York City, began to identify people who adopt technologies, lifestyles and world views transitional to posthumanity as "transhuman".
FM-2030 and Vita-More soon began holding gatherings for transhumanists in Los Angeles, which included students from FM-2030's courses and audiences from Vita-More's artistic productions.
A particular concern is the equal access to human enhancement technologies across classes and borders.
This left the World Transhumanist Association as the leading international transhumanist organization.
Notable for the theories that humans are social animals, and that the polis (Ancient Greek city state) existed to bring about the good life appropriate to such animals.
Burke was one of the biggest supporters of the American Revolution.
Chomsky is a leading critic of U.S. foreign policy, neoliberalism and contemporary state capitalism, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and mainstream news media.
William E. Connolly: Helped introduce postmodern philosophy into political theory, and promoted new theories of Pluralism and agonistic democracy.
Thomas Hill Green: Modern liberal thinker and early supporter of positive freedom.
His early work was heavily influenced by the Frankfurt School.
Since c is even, dividing c by 2 yields an integer.
Substituting 4y2 for c2 in the first equation (c2 = 2b2) gives us 4y2= 2b2.
Since b2 is even, b must be even.
However this contradicts the assumption that they have no common factors.
Hippasus, however, was not lauded for his efforts: according to one legend, he made his discovery while out at sea, and was subsequently thrown overboard by his fellow Pythagoreans “…for having produced an element in the universe which denied the…doctrine that all phenomena in the universe can be reduced to whole numbers and their ratios.”
For example, consider a line segment: this segment can be split in half, that half split in half, the half of the half in half, and so on.
