0001: Lillian Diana Gish (October 14, 1893 – February 27, 1993) was an American actress, director and screenwriter.
0002: Gish was a prominent film star from 1912 into the 1920s, being particularly associated with the films of director D. W. Griffith.
0003: She also did considerable television work from the early 1950s into the 1980s, and closed her career playing opposite Bette Davis in the 1987 film The Whales of August.
0004: The first several generations of Gishes were Dunkard ministers.
0005: Their mother opened the Majestic Candy Kitchen, and the girls helped sell popcorn and candy to patrons of the old Majestic Theater, located next door.
0006: The seventeen-year-old Lillian traveled to Shawnee, Oklahoma, where James's brother Alfred Grant Gish and his wife, Maude, lived.
0007: An example of multi-sited ethnography is Nancy Scheper-Hughes' work on the international black market for the trade of human organs.
0008: Research in kinship studies often crosses over into different anthropological subfields including medical, feminist, and public anthropology.
0009: That is the matrix into which human children are born in the great majority of cases, and their first words are often kinship terms.
0010: There are stark differences between communities in terms of marital practice and value, leaving much room for anthropological fieldwork.
0011: The marital practice found in most cultures, however, is monogamy, where one woman is married to one man.
0012: There are similar foundational differences where the act of procreation is concerned.
0013: Only derived characters, such as the spine-producing areoles of cacti, provide evidence for descent from a common ancestor.
0014: The difference is that the genetic code itself is used to decide evolutionary relationships, instead of being used indirectly via the characters it gives rise to.
0015: Genetic evidence suggests that the true evolutionary relationship of multicelled organisms is as shown in the cladogram below – fungi are more closely related to animals than to plants.
0016: Investigating how plant species are related to each other allows botanists to better understand the process of evolution in plants.
0017: Although humans have always been interested in the natural history of the animals they saw around them, and made use of this knowledge to domesticate certain species, the formal study of zoology can be said to have originated with Aristotle.
0018: Modern zoology has its origins during the Renaissance and early modern period, with Carl Linnaeus, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, Robert Hooke, Charles Darwin, Gregor Mendel and many others.
0019: Certain assumptions are necessary for all empirical claims (e.g. the assumption that reality exists).
0020: This may be as simple as observing that the theory makes accurate predictions, which is evidence that any assumptions made at the outset are correct or approximately correct under the conditions tested.
0021: The theory makes accurate predictions when the assumption is valid, and does not make accurate predictions when the assumption is not valid.
0022: The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) and online Wiktionary indicate its Latin source as assumere ("accept, to take to oneself, adopt, usurp"), which is a conjunction of ad- ("to, towards, at") and sumere (to take).
0023: The term was originally employed in religious contexts as in "to receive up into heaven", especially "the reception of the Virgin Mary into heaven, with body preserved from corruption", (1297 CE) but it was also simply used to refer to "receive into association" or "adopt into partnership".
0024: Confirmations should count only if they are the result of risky predictions; that is to say, if, unenlightened by the theory in question, we should have expected an event which was incompatible with the theory—an event which would have refuted the theory.
0025: Bioengineering is the application of the principles of engineering and natural sciences to tissues, cells and molecules.
0026: Through early biotechnology, the earliest farmers selected and bred the best-suited crops, having the highest yields, to produce enough food to support a growing population.
0027: These processes also were included in early fermentation of beer.
0028: In this process, carbohydrates in the grains broke down into alcohols, such as ethanol.
0029: Although the process of fermentation was not fully understood until Louis Pasteur's work in 1857, it is still the first use of biotechnology to convert a food source into another form.
0030: These accounts contributed to Darwin's theory of natural selection.
0031: Such a weapon must hold one or more subcritical fissile masses stable for deployment, then induce criticality (create a critical mass) for detonation.
0032: One isotope of uranium, namely uranium-235, is naturally occurring and sufficiently unstable, but it is always found mixed with the more stable isotope uranium-238.
0033: Alternatively, the element plutonium possesses an isotope that is sufficiently unstable for this process to be usable.
0034: They detonated the first nuclear weapon in a test code-named "Trinity", near Alamogordo, New Mexico, on July 16, 1945.
0035: In the wake of unprecedented devastation and casualties from a single weapon, the Japanese government soon surrendered, ending World War II.
0036: Just over four years later, on August 29, 1949, the Soviet Union detonated its first fission weapon.
0037: It can also be understood as the free market idea applied to international trade.
0038: The most outspoken critic of the church in France was François Marie Arouet de Voltaire, a representative figure of the enlightenment.
0039: My one regret in dying is that I cannot aid you in this noble enterprise, the finest and most respectable which the human mind can point out."
0040: Locke stood to refute Sir Robert Filmer's paternally founded political theory in favor of a natural system based on nature in a particular given system.
0041: Unlike Aquinas's preponderant view on the salvation of the soul from original sin, Locke believes man's mind comes into this world as tabula rasa.
0042: Though one could be worried about restrictions on liberty by benevolent monarchs or aristocrats, the traditional worry is that when rulers are politically unaccountable to the governed they will rule in their own interests, rather than the interests of the governed.
0043: Cultural anthropology is the comparative study of the manifold ways in which people make sense of the world around them, while social anthropology is the study of the relationships among individuals and groups.
0044: There is no hard-and-fast distinction between them, and these categories overlap to a considerable degree.
0045: This project is often accommodated in the field of ethnography.
0046: Participant observation is one of the foundational methods of social and cultural anthropology.
0047: The study of kinship and social organization is a central focus of sociocultural anthropology, as kinship is a human universal.
0048: Ethnography views first-hand experience and social context as important.
0049: Her father died in Norman, Oklahoma, in 1912, but she had returned to Ohio a few months before this.
0050: When Lillian and Dorothy were old enough they joined the theatre, often traveling separately in different productions.
0051: Gish continued to perform on the stage, and in 1913, during a run of A Good Little Devil, she collapsed from anemia.
0052: Her performance in these frigid conditions gave her lasting nerve damage in several fingers.
0053: He utilized her expressive talents to the fullest, developing her into a suffering yet strong heroine.
0054: She directed her sister Dorothy in one film, Remodeling Her Husband (1920), when D. W. Griffith took his unit on location.
0055: The shift can be traced back to the 1960s, with the reassessment of kinship's basic principles offered by Edmund Leach, Rodney Neeham, David Schneider, and others.
0056: This shift was progressed further by the emergence of second-wave feminism in the early 1970s, which introduced ideas of marital oppression, sexual autonomy, and domestic subordination.
0057: At this time, there was the arrival of "Third World feminism", a movement that argued kinship studies could not examine the gender relations of developing countries in isolation, and must pay respect to racial and economic nuance as well.
0058: In Jamaica, marriage as an institution is often substituted for a series of partners, as poor women cannot rely on regular financial contributions in a climate of economic instability.
0059: With this technology, questions of kinship have emerged over the difference between biological and genetic relatedness, as gestational surrogates can provide a biological environment for the embryo while the genetic ties remain with a third party.
0060: There have also been issues of reproductive tourism and bodily commodification, as individuals seek economic security through hormonal stimulation and egg harvesting, which are potentially harmful procedures.
0061: There are cave paintings, engravings and sculptures in France dating back 15,000 years showing bison, horses and deer in carefully rendered detail.
0062: Ancient knowledge of wildlife is illustrated by the realistic depictions of wild and domestic animals in the Near East, Mesopotamia and Egypt, including husbandry practices and techniques, hunting and fishing.
0063: Aristotle, in the fourth century BC, looked at animals as living organisms, studying their structure, development and vital phenomena.
0064: Four hundred years later, Roman physician Galen dissected animals to study their anatomy and the function of the different parts, because the dissection of human cadavers was prohibited at the time.
0065: In Europe, Galen's work on anatomy remained largely unsurpassed and unchallenged up until the 16th century.
0066: Having previously been the realm of gentlemen naturalists, over the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries, zoology became an increasingly professional scientific discipline.
0067: A theory which is not refutable by any conceivable event is non-scientific.
0068: Some genuinely testable theories, when found to be false, might still be upheld by their admirers—for example by introducing post hoc (after the fact) some auxiliary hypothesis or assumption, or by reinterpreting the theory post hoc in such a way that it escapes refutation.
0069: Popper summarized these statements by saying that the central criterion of the scientific status of a theory is its "falsifiability, or refutability, or testability".
0070: Several philosophers and historians of science have, however, argued that Popper's definition of theory as a set of falsifiable statements is wrong because, as Philip Kitcher has pointed out, if one took a strictly Popperian view of "theory", observations of Uranus when first discovered in 1781 would have "falsified" Newton's celestial mechanics.
0071: Fecundity: "A great scientific theory, like Newton's, opens up new areas of research….
0072: At any time, it raises more questions than it can currently answer.
0073: In 1928, Alexander Fleming discovered the mold Penicillium.
0074: The MOSFET (metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor) was invented by Mohamed M. Atalla and Dawon Kahng in 1959.
0075: The first BioFET was the ion-sensitive field-effect transistor (ISFET), invented by Piet Bergveld in 1970.
0076: By the mid-1980s, other BioFETs had been developed, including the gas sensor FET (GASFET), pressure sensor FET (PRESSFET), chemical field-effect transistor (ChemFET), reference ISFET (REFET), enzyme-modified FET (ENFET) and immunologically modified FET (IMFET).
0077: Rising demand for biofuels is expected to be good news for the biotechnology sector, with the Department of Energy estimating ethanol usage could reduce U.S. petroleum-derived fuel consumption by up to 30% by 2030.
0078: TCE: The Chemical Engineer, (816), 26–31.
0079: A radiological weapons is a type of nuclear weapon designed to distribute hazardous nuclear material in enemy areas.
0080: While considered useless by a conventional military, such a weapon raises concerns over nuclear terrorism.
0081: The treaty permitted underground nuclear testing.
0082: After signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty in 1996 (which had as of 2011 not entered into force), all of these states have pledged to discontinue all nuclear testing.
0083: Throughout the Cold War, the opposing powers had huge nuclear arsenals, sufficient to kill hundreds of millions of people.
0084: Currently nuclear power provides approximately 15.7% of the world's electricity (in 2004) and is used to propel aircraft carriers, icebreakers and submarines (so far economics and fears in some ports have prevented the use of nuclear power in transport ships).
0085: Justice involves duties that are perfect duties—that is, duties that are correlated with rights.
0086: He uses, On Liberty to discuss gender equality in society.
0087: The Liberty of the Ancients was participatory republican liberty, which gave the citizens the right to directly influence politics through debates and votes in the public assembly.
0088: Ancient Liberty was also limited to relatively small and homogenous societies, in which the people could be conveniently gathered together in one place to transact public affairs.
0089: Instead, the voters would elect representatives, who would deliberate in Parliament on behalf of the people and would save citizens from the necessity of daily political involvement.
0090: In Leviathan, Hobbes set out his doctrine of the foundation of states and legitimate governments and creating an objective science of morality.
0091: Ethnomusicology can be used in a wide variety of fields, such as teaching, politics, cultural anthropology etc.
0092: Economic Anthropology remains, for the most part, focused upon exchange.
0093: The first of these areas was concerned with the "pre-capitalist" societies that were subject to evolutionary "tribal" stereotypes.
0094: Why are those working in development so willing to disregard history and the lessons it might offer?
0095: Within kinship you have two different families.
0096: Anthropology engages often with feminists from non-Western traditions, whose perspectives and experiences can differ from those of white feminists of Europe, America, and elsewhere.
0097: She turned down the money, requesting a more modest wage and a percentage so that the studio could use the funds to increase the quality of her films — hiring the best actors, screenwriters, etc.
0098: Many of the silent era's leading ladies, such as Gish and Pickford, had been wholesome and innocent, but by the early 1930s (after the full adoption of sound and before the Motion Picture Production Code was enforced) these roles were perceived as outdated.
0099: Louis Mayer wanted to stage a scandal ("knock her off her pedestal") to garner public sympathy for Gish, but Lillian didn't want to act both on screen and off, and returned to her first love, the theater.
0100: Returning to movies, Gish was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1946 for Duel in the Sun.
0101: She was considered for various roles in Gone with the Wind ranging from Ellen O'Hara, Scarlett's mother (which went to Barbara O'Neil), to prostitute Belle Watling (which went to Ona Munson).
0102: She appeared as Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna in the short-lived 1965 Broadway musical Anya.
0103: One critique is that, as its inception, the framework of kinship studies was far too structured and formulaic, relying on dense language and stringent rules.
0104: Much of this development can be attributed to the rise in anthropologists working outside of academia and the increasing importance of globalization in both institutions and the field of anthropology.
0105: The two types of institutions defined in the field of anthropology are total institutions and social institutions.
0106: Anthropology of institutions may analyze labor unions, businesses ranging from small enterprises to corporations, government, medical organizations, education, prisons, and financial institutions.
0107: Institutional anthropologists may study the relationship between organizations or between an organization and other parts of society.
0108: More specifically, anthropologists may analyze specific events within an institution, perform semiotic investigations, or analyze the mechanisms by which knowledge and culture are organized and dispersed.
0109: These developments, as well as the results from embryology and paleontology, were synthesized in the 1859 publication of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection; in this Darwin placed the theory of organic evolution on a new footing, by explaining the processes by which it can occur, and providing observational evidence that it had done so.
0110: Darwin gave a new direction to morphology and physiology, by uniting them in a common biological theory: the theory of organic evolution.
0111: An early necessity was to identify the organisms and group them according to their characteristics, differences and relationships, and this is the field of the taxonomist.
0112: His ideas were centered on the morphology of animals.
0113: These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent.
0114: Homo is the genus, and sapiens the specific epithet, both of them combined make up the species name.
0115: Like other definitions of theories, including Popper's, Kitcher makes it clear that a theory must include statements that have observational consequences.
0116: It may be set out on paper as a system of rules, and it is the more truly a theory the more completely it can be put down in such terms.
0117: The specific mathematical aspects of classical electromagnetic theory are termed "laws of electromagnetism," reflecting the level of consistent and reproducible evidence that supports them.
0118: An example of the latter might be the radiation reaction force.
0119: A scientist is a person who conducts scientific research to advance knowledge in an area of interest.
0120: Scientists of different eras (and before them, natural philosophers, mathematicians, natural historians, natural theologians, engineers, and others who contributed to the development of science) have had widely different places in society, and the social norms, ethical values, and epistemic virtues associated with scientists—and expected of them—have changed over time as well.
0121: Another example is the designing of transgenic plants to grow under specific environments in the presence (or absence) of chemicals.
0122: On the other hand, some of the uses of green biotechnology involve microorganisms to clean and reduce waste.
0123: As well as the development of hormones, stem cells, antibodies, siRNA and diagnostic tests.
0124: One application is the creation of enhanced seeds that resist extreme environmental conditions of arid regions, which is related to the innovation, creation of agriculture techniques and management of resources.
0125: The purpose of pharmacogenomics is to develop rational means to optimize drug therapy, with respect to the patients' genotype, to ensure maximum efficacy with minimal adverse effects.
0126: Modern biotechnology can be used to manufacture existing medicines relatively easily and cheaply.
0127: Medical and dental x-ray imagers use of cobalt-60 or other x-ray sources.
0128: Both contain a small source of 241Am that gives rise to a small constant current.
0129: Another use in insect control is the sterile insect technique, where male insects are sterilized by radiation and released, so they have no offspring, to reduce the population.
0130: The radiation sources used include radioisotope gamma ray sources, X-ray generators and electron accelerators.
0131: As such it is also used on non-food items, such as medical hardware, plastics, tubes for gas-pipelines, hoses for floor-heating, shrink-foils for food packaging, automobile parts, wires and cables (isolation), tires, and even gemstones.
0132: Microorganisms can no longer proliferate and continue their malignant or pathogenic activities.
0133: In that state, each person would have a right, or license, to everything in the world.
0134: Published in 1762, it became one of the most influential works of political philosophy in the Western tradition.
0135: Those who think themselves the masters of others are indeed greater slaves than they."
0136: The industrial revolution produced a parallel revolution in political thought.
0137: In the mid-19th century, Marxism was developed, and socialism in general gained increasing popular support, mostly from the urban working class.
0138: Unlike Marx who believed in historical materialism, Hegel believed in the Phenomenology of Spirit.
0139: Political anthropology developed as a discipline concerned primarily with politics in stateless societies, a new development started from the 1960s, and is still unfolding: anthropologists started increasingly to study more "complex" social settings in which the presence of states, bureaucracies and markets entered both ethnographic accounts and analysis of local phenomena.
0140: Secondly, anthropologists slowly started to develop a disciplinary concern with states and their institutions (and on the relationship between formal and informal political institutions).
0141: It is sometimes grouped with sociocultural anthropology, and sometimes considered part of material culture.
0142: It is also the study of the history of various ethnic groups that may or may not exist today.
0143: Various social processes in the Western World as well as in the "Third World" (the latter being the habitual focus of attention of anthropologists) brought the attention of "specialists in 'other cultures'" closer to their homes.
0144: It is an interdisciplinary field that overlaps with a number of other disciplines, including anthropology, ethology, medicine, psychology, veterinary medicine and zoology.
0145: She was interviewed in the television documentary series Hollywood: A Celebration of the American Silent Film (1980).
0146: She has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1720 Vine Street.
0147: At the Cannes festival, Gish won a 10-minute standing ovation from the audience.
0148: The episode "Marry for Murder" was broadcast on September 9, 1943.
0149: She was awarded an Academy Honorary Award in 1971, and in 1984 she received an AFI Life Achievement Award.
0150: The University awarded Gish the honorary degree of Doctor of Performing Arts the next day.
0151: This new era would involve many new technological developments, such as mechanical recording.
0152: Current Anthropology 43(Supplement):S5-17.Schieffelin, Bambi B. 2006.
0153: Woolard, in her overview of "code switching", or the systematic practice of alternating linguistic varieties within a conversation or even a single utterance, finds the underlying question anthropologists ask of the practice—Why do they do that?—reflects a dominant linguistic ideology.
0154: Other linguists have carried out research in the areas of language contact, language endangerment, and 'English as a global language'.
0155: The work of Joel Kuipers develops this theme vis-a-vis the island of Sumba, Indonesia.
0156: He feels, in fact, that the exemplary center idea is one of linguistic anthropology's three most important findings.
0157: The dominant classification system is called the Linnaean taxonomy.
0158: Understanding the structure and function of cells is fundamental to all of the biological sciences.
0159: It focuses on how organs and organ systems work together in the bodies of humans and animals, in addition to how they work independently.
0160: Physiological studies have traditionally been divided into plant physiology and animal physiology, but some principles of physiology are universal, no matter what particular organism is being studied.
0161: For example, it generally involves scientists who have special training in particular organisms such as mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, or entomology, but use those organisms as systems to answer general questions about evolution.
0162: Ethologists have been particularly concerned with the evolution of behavior and the understanding of behavior in terms of the theory of natural selection.
0163: Many proto-scientists from the Islamic Golden Age are considered polymaths, in part because of the lack of anything corresponding to modern scientific disciplines.
0164: Propositions arrived at by purely logical means are completely empty as regards reality.
0165: Descartes was not only a pioneer of analytic geometry but formulated a theory of mechanics and advanced ideas about the origins of animal movement and perception.
0166: He provided a comprehensive formulation of classical mechanics and investigated light and optics.
0167: He discovered that a charge applied to the spinal cord of a frog could generate muscular spasms throughout its body.
0168: Lazzaro Spallanzani is one of the most influential figures in experimental physiology and the natural sciences.
0169: Genetic testing allows the genetic diagnosis of vulnerabilities to inherited diseases, and can also be used to determine a child's parentage (genetic mother and father) or in general a person's ancestry.
0170: Most of the time, testing is used to find changes that are associated with inherited disorders.
0171: Biotechnology firms can contribute to future food security by improving the nutrition and viability of urban agriculture.
0172: 10% of the world's crop lands were planted with GM crops in 2010.
0173: These techniques have allowed for the introduction of new crop traits as well as a far greater control over a food's genetic structure than previously afforded by methods such as selective breeding and mutation breeding.
0174: These have been engineered for resistance to pathogens and herbicides and better nutrient profiles.
0175: Plants cannot continue the natural ripening or aging process.
0176: The specialty of processing food by ionizing radiation is the fact, that the energy density per atomic transition is very high, it can cleave molecules and induce ionization (hence the name) which cannot be achieved by mere heating.
0177: However, the use of the term, cold pasteurization, to describe irradiated foods is controversial, because pasteurization and irradiation are fundamentally different processes, although the intended end results can in some cases be similar.
0178: Marie Curie died from aplastic anemia which resulted from her high levels of exposure.
0179: Approximately half of the deaths from Hiroshima and Nagasaki died two to five years afterward from radiation exposure.
0180: A nuclear meltdown refers to the more serious hazard of releasing nuclear material into the surrounding environment.
0181: In the Anglo-American world, anti-imperialism and pluralism began gaining currency at the turn of the 20th century.
0182: This was the time of Jean-Paul Sartre and Louis Althusser, and the victories of Mao Zedong in China and Fidel Castro in Cuba, as well as the events of May 1968, led to increased interest in revolutionary ideology, especially by the New Left.
0183: Colonialism and racism were important issues that arose.
0184: The rise of feminism, LGBT social movements and the end of colonial rule and of the political exclusion of such minorities as African Americans and sexual minorities in the developed world has led to feminist, postcolonial, and multicultural thought becoming significant.
0185: Rawls used a thought experiment, the original position, in which representative parties choose principles of justice for the basic structure of society from behind a veil of ignorance.
0186: Contemporaneously with the rise of analytic ethics in Anglo-American thought, in Europe, several new lines of philosophy directed at the critique of existing societies arose between the 1950s and 1980s.
0187: It is the study of ancient humans, as found in fossil hominid evidence such as petrifacted bones and footprints.
0188: In 1989, a group of European and American scholars in the field of anthropology established the European Association of Social Anthropologists (EASA) which serves as a major professional organization for anthropologists working in Europe.
0189: This is the notion that cultures should not be judged by another's values or viewpoints, but be examined dispassionately on their own terms.
0190: Franz Boas publicly objected to US participation in World War I, and after the war he published a brief expose and condemnation of the participation of several American archaeologists in espionage in Mexico under their cover as scientists.
0191: At the same time, David H. Price's work on American anthropology during the Cold War provides detailed accounts of the pursuit and dismissal of several anthropologists from their jobs for communist sympathies.
0192: Numerous resolutions condemning the war in all its aspects were passed overwhelmingly at the annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association (AAA).
0193: Following Gish's 1993 death, the University raised funds to enlarge its gallery to display memorabilia received from Gish's estate.
0194: The association between herself and D. W. Griffith was so close that some suspected a romantic connection, an issue never acknowledged by Gish, although several of their associates were certain they were at least briefly involved.
0195: In the 1920s, Gish's association with Duell became something of a tabloid scandal when he sued her and made the details of their relationship public.
0196: George Jean Nathan praised Gish's acting glowingly—comparing her to Eleonora Duse.
0197: During the period of political turmoil in the US that lasted from the outbreak of World War II in Europe until the attack on Pearl Harbor, she maintained an outspoken non-interventionist stance.
0198: Joseph Frank Keaton (October 4, 1895 – February 1, 1966), known professionally as Buster Keaton, was an American actor, comedian, film director, producer, screenwriter, and stunt performer.
0199: Therefore, after a couple generations these languages may no longer be spoken.
0200: To follow best practices of documentation, these records should be clearly annotated and kept safe within an archive of some kind.
0201: Language revitalization is the practice of bringing a language back into common use.
0202: The course aims to educate indigenous and non-indigenous students about the Lenape language and culture.
0203: Encouraging those who already know the language to use it, increasing the domains of usage, and increasing the overall prestige of the language are all components of reclamation.
0204: Social anthropology is the study of patterns of behaviour in human societies and cultures.
0205: While researchers practice techniques specific to molecular biology, it is common to combine these with methods from genetics and biochemistry.
0206: Biological systematics is the study of the diversification of living forms, both past and present, and the relationships among living things through time.
0207: Phylogenetic trees of species and higher taxa are used to study the evolution of traits (e.g., anatomical or molecular characteristics) and the distribution of organisms (biogeography).
0208: Biological systematics classifies species by using three specific branches.
0209: Experimental systematics identifies and classifies animals based on the evolutionary units that comprise a species, as well as their importance in evolution itself.
0210: Explaining the biodiversity of the planet and its organisms.
0211: However, there is no formal process to determine who is a scientist and who is not a scientist.
0212: A little over half of the respondents wanted to pursue a career in academia, with smaller proportions hoping to work in industry, government, and nonprofit environments.
0213: They exhibit a strong curiosity about reality.
0214: Some scientists have a desire to apply scientific knowledge for the benefit of people's health, the nations, the world, nature, or industries (academic scientist and industrial scientist).
0215: These include cosmology and biology, especially molecular biology and the human genome project.
0216: The figure included twice as many men as women.
0217: Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe.
0218: However, opponents have objected to GM crops per se on several grounds, including environmental concerns, whether food produced from GM crops is safe, whether GM crops are needed to address the world's food needs, and economic concerns raised by the fact these organisms are subject to intellectual property law.
0219: There are differences in the regulation of GMOs between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the US and Europe.
0220: The European Union differentiates between approval for cultivation within the EU and approval for import and processing.
0221: Each successful application is generally funded for five years then must be competitively renewed.
0222: Cloning is the process of producing individual organisms with either identical or virtually identical DNA, either by natural or artificial means.
0223: Military reactors that experienced similar accidents were Windscale in the United Kingdom and SL-1 in the United States.
0224: Another topic of transhumanist research is how to protect humanity against existential risks, such as nuclear war or asteroid collision.
0225: The assertion would lay the intellectual groundwork for the British philosopher Max More to begin articulating the principles of transhumanism as a futurist philosophy in 1990, and organizing in California a school of thought that has since grown into the worldwide transhumanist movement.
0226: In the Discourse, Descartes envisioned a new kind of medicine that could grant both physical immortality and stronger minds.
0227: St. Leon may have provided inspiration for his daughter Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein.
0228: In particular, he was interested in the development of the science of eugenics, ectogenesis (creating and sustaining life in an artificial environment), and the application of genetics to improve human characteristics, such as health and intelligence.
0229: Along somewhat different lines, a number of other continental thinkers—still largely influenced by Marxism—put new emphases on structuralism and on a "return to Hegel".
0230: Another debate developed around the (distinct) criticisms of liberal political theory made by Michael Walzer, Michael Sandel and Charles Taylor.
0231: Communitarians tend to support greater local control as well as economic and social policies which encourage the growth of social capital.
0232: A pair of overlapping political perspectives arising toward the end of the 20th century are republicanism (or neo- or civic-republicanism) and the capability approach.
0233: To a republican the mere status as a slave, regardless of how that slave is treated, is objectionable.
0234: Both the capability approach and republicanism treat choice as something which must be resourced.
0235: The Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and Commonwealth (ASA) has called certain scholarship ethically dangerous.
0236: One of the central characteristics is that anthropology tends to provide a comparatively more holistic account of phenomena and tends to be highly empirical.
0237: These dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.
0238: On the biological or physical side, human measurements, genetic samples, nutritional data may be gathered and published as articles or monographs.
0239: Further cultural subdivisions according to tool types, such as Olduwan or Mousterian or Levalloisian help archaeologists and other anthropologists in understanding major trends in the human past.
0240: A cultural norm codifies acceptable conduct in society; it serves as a guideline for behavior, dress, language, and demeanor in a situation, which serves as a template for expectations in a social group.
0241: His career declined when he signed with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and lost his artistic independence.
0242: Many of Keaton's films from the 1920s remain highly regarded, such as Sherlock Jr. (1924), The General (1926), and The Cameraman (1928).
0243: His father was Joseph Hallie "Joe" Keaton, who owned a traveling show with Harry Houdini called the Mohawk Indian Medicine Company, or the Keaton Houdini Medicine Show Company, which performed on stage and sold patent medicine on the side.
0244: In Keaton's retelling, he was six months old when the incident occurred, and Harry Houdini gave him the nickname.
0245: The act was mainly a comedy sketch.
0246: A suitcase handle was sewn into Keaton's clothing to aid with the constant tossing.
0247: British and American anthropologists including Gillian Tett and Karen Ho who studied Wall Street provided an alternative explanation for the financial crisis of 2007–2010 to the technical explanations rooted in economic and political theory.
0248: This development was bolstered by Franz Boas's introduction of cultural relativism arguing that cultures are based on different ideas about the world and can therefore only be properly understood in terms of their own standards and values.
0249: In 1906, Congolese pygmy Ota Benga was put by American anthropologist Madison Grant in a cage in the Bronx Zoo, labelled "the missing link" between an orangutan and the "white race" — Grant, a renowned eugenicist, was also the author of The Passing of the Great Race (1916).
0250: Anthropology grew increasingly distinct from natural history and by the end of the 19th century the discipline began to crystallize into its modern form - by 1935, for example, it was possible for T.K. Penniman to write a history of the discipline entitled A Hundred Years of Anthropology.
0251: Non-European societies were thus seen as evolutionary "living fossils" that could be studied in order to understand the European past.
0252: However, as Stocking notes, Tylor mainly concerned himself with describing and mapping the distribution of particular elements of culture, rather than with the larger function, and he generally seemed to assume a Victorian idea of progress rather than the idea of non-directional, multilineal cultural change proposed by later anthropologists.
0253: Taxonomy is that part of Systematics concerned with topics (a) to (d) above.
0254: However, in modern usage, they can all be considered synonyms of each other.
0255: Some claim systematics alone deals specifically with relationships through time, and that it can be synonymous with phylogenetics, broadly dealing with the inferred hierarchy of organisms.
0256: Scientific classifications are aids in recording and reporting information to other scientists and to laymen.
0257: In biology, a species is the basic unit of classification and a taxonomic rank of an organism, as well as a unit of biodiversity.
0258: In addition, paleontologists use the concept of the chronospecies since fossil reproduction cannot be examined.
0259: Relevant phenomena include supernova explosions, gamma ray bursts, quasars, blazars, pulsars, and cosmic microwave background radiation.
0260: Astronomy is one of the oldest natural sciences.
0261: In the past, astronomy included disciplines as diverse as astrometry, celestial navigation, observational astronomy, and the making of calendars.
0262: Observational astronomy is focused on acquiring data from observations of astronomical objects.
0263: These two fields complement each other.
0264: Based on strict dictionary definitions, "astronomy" refers to "the study of objects and matter outside the Earth's atmosphere and of their physical and chemical properties," while "astrophysics" refers to the branch of astronomy dealing with "the behavior, physical properties, and dynamic processes of celestial objects and phenomena".
0265: It is used in a wide array of biological experiments and practical applications ranging from genetic fingerprinting to large scale protein production.
0266: Initially, the DNA of interest needs to be isolated to provide a DNA segment of suitable size.
0267: Following ligation the vector with the insert of interest is transfected into cells.
0268: A useful tissue culture technique used to clone distinct lineages of cell lines involves the use of cloning rings (cylinders).
0269: This process is also called "research cloning" or "therapeutic cloning".
0270: Therapeutic cloning is achieved by creating embryonic stem cells in the hopes of treating diseases such as diabetes and Alzheimer's.
0271: These ideas have been common transhumanist themes ever since.
0272: In the Material and Man section of the manifesto, Noboru Kawazoe suggests that:After several decades, with the rapid progress of communication technology, every one will have a "brain wave receiver" in his ear, which conveys directly and exactly what other people think about him and vice versa.
0273: In 1966, FM-2030 (formerly F. M. Esfandiary), a futurist who taught "new concepts of the human" at The New School, in New York City, began to identify people who adopt technologies, lifestyles and world views transitional to posthumanity as "transhuman".
0274: FM-2030 and Vita-More soon began holding gatherings for transhumanists in Los Angeles, which included students from FM-2030's courses and audiences from Vita-More's artistic productions.
0275: A particular concern is the equal access to human enhancement technologies across classes and borders.
0276: This left the World Transhumanist Association as the leading international transhumanist organization.
0277: Notable for the theories that humans are social animals, and that the polis (Ancient Greek city state) existed to bring about the good life appropriate to such animals.
0278: Burke was one of the biggest supporters of the American Revolution.
0279: Chomsky is a leading critic of U.S. foreign policy, neoliberalism and contemporary state capitalism, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and mainstream news media.
0280: William E. Connolly: Helped introduce postmodern philosophy into political theory, and promoted new theories of Pluralism and agonistic democracy.
0281: Thomas Hill Green: Modern liberal thinker and early supporter of positive freedom.
0282: His early work was heavily influenced by the Frankfurt School.
0283: These include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing.
0284: The level of cultural sophistication has also sometimes been used to distinguish civilizations from less complex societies.
0285: Mass culture refers to the mass-produced and mass mediated forms of consumer culture that emerged in the 20th century.
0286: In the wider social sciences, the theoretical perspective of cultural materialism holds that human symbolic culture arises from the material conditions of human life, as humans create the conditions for physical survival, and that the basis of culture is found in evolved biological dispositions.
0287: In this sense, multiculturalism values the peaceful coexistence and mutual respect between different cultures inhabiting the same planet.
0288: In 1986, philosopher Edward S. Casey wrote, "The very word culture meant 'place tilled' in Middle English, and the same word goes back to Latin colere, 'to inhabit, care for, till, worship' and cultus, 'A cult, especially a religious one.'
0289: However, Buster was always able to show the authorities that he had no bruises or broken bones.
0290: Several times I'd have been killed if I hadn't been able to land like a cat.
0291: Noticing that this caused the audience to laugh less, he adopted his famous deadpan expression when performing.
0292: Despite tangles with the law and a disastrous tour of music halls in the United Kingdom, Keaton was a rising star in the theater.
0293: In February 1917, he met Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle at the Talmadge Studios in New York City, where Arbuckle was under contract to Joseph M. Schenck.
0294: Buster was such a natural in his first film, The Butcher Boy, he was hired on the spot.
0295: His comparative studies, most influentially in the numerous editions of The Golden Bough, analyzed similarities in religious belief and symbolism globally.
0296: The findings of the expedition set new standards for ethnographic description.
0297: Other intellectual founders include W. H. R. Rivers and A. C. Haddon, whose orientation reflected the contemporary Parapsychologies of Wilhelm Wundt and Adolf Bastian, and Sir E. B. Tylor, who defined anthropology as a positivist science following Auguste Comte.
0298: A. R. Radcliffe-Brown also published a seminal work in 1922.
0299: This was particularly the case with Radcliffe-Brown, who spread his agenda for "Social Anthropology" by teaching at universities across the British Empire and Commonwealth.
0300: He believed that indigenous terms used in ethnographic data should be translated into Anglo-American legal terms for the benefit of the reader.
0301: All species (except viruses) are given a two-part name, a "binomial".
0302: For example, Boa constrictor is one of four species of the genus Boa, with constrictor being the species's epithet.
0303: Also, among organisms that reproduce only asexually, the concept of a reproductive species breaks down, and each clone is potentially a microspecies.
0304: Species were seen from the time of Aristotle until the 18th century as fixed categories that could be arranged in a hierarchy, the great chain of being.
0305: That understanding was greatly extended in the 20th century through genetics and population ecology.
0306: Ernst Mayr emphasised reproductive isolation, but this, like other species concepts, is hard or even impossible to test.
0307: Some fields, such as astrometry, are purely astronomy rather than also astrophysics.
0308: From these observations, early ideas about the motions of the planets were formed, and the nature of the Sun, Moon and the Earth in the Universe were explored philosophically.
0309: A particularly important early development was the beginning of mathematical and scientific astronomy, which began among the Babylonians, who laid the foundations for the later astronomical traditions that developed in many other civilizations.
0310: Greek astronomy is characterized from the start by seeking a rational, physical explanation for celestial phenomena.
0311: Hipparchus also created a comprehensive catalog of 1020 stars, and most of the constellations of the northern hemisphere derive from Greek astronomy.
0312: Georg von Peuerbach (1423–1461) and Regiomontanus (1436–1476) helped make astronomical progress instrumental to Copernicus's development of the heliocentric model decades later.
0313: The reason why SCNT is used for cloning is because somatic cells can be easily acquired and cultured in the lab.
0314: The oocyte will react to the somatic cell nucleus, the same way it would to a sperm cell's nucleus.
0315: The somatic cells could be used immediately or stored in the laboratory for later use.
0316: This creates a one-cell embryo.
0317: The successfully developed embryos are then placed in surrogate recipients, such as a cow or sheep in the case of farm animals.
0318: Another benefit is SCNT is seen as a solution to clone endangered species that are on the verge of going extinct.
0319: The Mormon Transhumanist Association was founded in 2006.
0320: Transhumanism stresses the evolutionary perspective, including sometimes the creation of a highly intelligent animal species by way of cognitive enhancement (i.e. biological uplift), but clings to a "posthuman future" as the final goal of participant evolution.
0321: While such a "cultural posthumanism" would offer resources for rethinking the relationships between humans and increasingly sophisticated machines, transhumanism and similar posthumanisms are, in this view, not abandoning obsolete concepts of the "autonomous liberal subject", but are expanding its "prerogatives" into the realm of the posthuman.
0322: However, other progressives have argued that posthumanism, whether it be its philosophical or activist forms, amounts to a shift away from concerns about social justice, from the reform of human institutions and from other Enlightenment preoccupations, toward narcissistic longings for a transcendence of the human body in quest of more exquisite ways of being.
0323: Many transhumanists actively assess the potential for future technologies and innovative social systems to improve the quality of all life, while seeking to make the material reality of the human condition fulfill the promise of legal and political equality by eliminating congenital mental and physical barriers.
0324: Some theorists such as Ray Kurzweil think that the pace of technological innovation is accelerating and that the next 50 years may yield not only radical technological advances, but possibly a technological singularity, which may fundamentally change the nature of human beings.
0325: He advocated free-market capitalism in which the main role of the state is to maintain the rule of law and let spontaneous order develop.
0326: David Hume: Hume criticized the social contract theory of John Locke and others as resting on a myth of some actual agreement.
0327: Most famous for the United States Declaration of Independence.
0328: Argued that an international organization was needed to preserve world peace.
0329: He departed from Hobbes in that, based on the assumption of a society in which moral values are independent of governmental authority and widely shared, he argued for a government with power limited to the protection of personal property.
0330: One of the founders of Western Marxism.
0331: Thus a contrast between "culture" and "civilization" is usually implied in these authors, even when not expressed as such.
0332: This ability arose with the evolution of behavioral modernity in humans around 50,000 years ago and is often thought to be unique to humans.
0333: Rein Raud, building on the work of Umberto Eco, Pierre Bourdieu and Jeffrey C. Alexander, has proposed a model of cultural change based on claims and bids, which are judged by their cognitive adequacy and endorsed or not endorsed by the symbolic authority of the cultural community in question.
0334: Culture repositioning means the reconstruction of the cultural concept of a society.
0335: Social conflict and the development of technologies can produce changes within a society by altering social dynamics and promoting new cultural models, and spurring or enabling generative action.
0336: Environmental conditions may also enter as factors.
0337: Keaton later claimed that he was soon Arbuckle's second director and his entire gag department.
0338: It was based on a successful play, The New Henrietta, which had already been filmed once, under the title The Lamb, with Douglas Fairbanks playing the lead.
0339: He made a series of two-reel comedies, including One Week (1920), The Playhouse (1921), Cops (1922), and The Electric House (1922).
0340: Comedy director Leo McCarey, recalling the freewheeling days of making slapstick comedies, said, "All of us tried to steal each other's gagmen.
0341: During the railroad water-tank scene in Sherlock Jr., Keaton broke his neck when a torrent of water fell on him from a water tower, but he did not realize it until years afterward.
0342: Keaton's character emerged unscathed, due to a single open window.
0343: Departments of Social Anthropology at different Universities have tended to focus on disparate aspects of the field.
0344: A people is any plurality of persons considered as a whole.
0345: Four states — Massachusetts, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky — refer to themselves as the Commonwealth in case captions and legal process.
0346: In some parts of the world, ethnology has developed along independent paths of investigation and pedagogical doctrine, with cultural anthropology becoming dominant especially in the United States, and social anthropology in Great Britain.
0347: The 15th-century exploration of America by European explorers had an important role in formulating new notions of the Occident (the Western world), such as the notion of the "Other".
0348: The progress of ethnology, for example with Claude Lévi-Strauss's structural anthropology, led to the criticism of conceptions of a linear progress, or the pseudo-opposition between "societies with histories" and "societies without histories", judged too dependent on a limited view of history as constituted by accumulative growth.
0349: This method was used as a "classical" method of determining species, such as with Linnaeus early in evolutionary theory.
0350: As a rule of thumb, microbiologists have assumed that kinds of Bacteria or Archaea with 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequences more similar than 97% to each other need to be checked by DNA-DNA hybridisation to decide if they belong to the same species or not.
0351: Modern approaches compare sequence similarity using computational methods.
0352: A database, Barcode of Life Data Systems (BOLD), contains DNA barcode sequences from over 190,000 species.
0353: For example, in a study done on fungi, studying the nucleotide characters using cladistic species produced the most accurate results in recognising the numerous fungi species of all the concepts studied.
0354: Yet others defend this approach, considering "taxonomic inflation" pejorative and labelling the opposing view as "taxonomic conservatism"; claiming it is politically expedient to split species and recognise smaller populations at the species level, because this means they can more easily be included as endangered in the IUCN red list and can attract conservation legislation and funding.
0355: In 964, the Andromeda Galaxy, the largest galaxy in the Local Group, was described by the Persian Muslim astronomer Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi in his Book of Fixed Stars.
0356: Astronomers during that time introduced many Arabic names now used for individual stars.
0357: Songhai historian Mahmud Kati documented a meteor shower in August 1583.
0358: Kepler was the first to devise a system that correctly described the details of the motion of the planets around the Sun.
0359: The English astronomer John Flamsteed catalogued over 3000 stars, More extensive star catalogues were produced by Nicolas Louis de Lacaille.
0360: This work was further refined by Joseph-Louis Lagrange and Pierre Simon Laplace, allowing the masses of the planets and moons to be estimated from their perturbations.
0361: Only three of these embryos survived until birth, and only one survived to adulthood.
0362: However, by 2014 researchers were reporting cloning success rates of seven to eight out of ten and in 2016, a Korean Company Sooam Biotech was reported to be producing 500 cloned embryos per day.
0363: Asexual reproduction is a naturally occurring phenomenon in many species, including most plants and some insects.
0364: As an example, some European cultivars of grapes represent clones that have been propagated for over two millennia.
0365: Many trees, shrubs, vines, ferns and other herbaceous perennials form clonal colonies naturally.
0366: In plants, parthenogenesis means the development of an embryo from an unfertilized egg cell, and is a component process of apomixis.
0367: For example, Bostrom has written extensively on existential risks to humanity's future welfare, including ones that could be created by emerging technologies.
0368: To counter this, Hawking emphasizes either self-design of the human genome or mechanical enhancement (e.g., brain-computer interface) to enhance human intelligence and reduce aggression, without which he implies human civilization may be too stupid collectively to survive an increasingly unstable system, resulting in societal collapse.
0369: These thinkers argue that the ability to discuss in a falsification-based way constitutes a threshold that is not arbitrary at which it becomes possible for an individual to speak for themselves in a way that is not dependent on exterior assumptions.
0370: In keeping with this, many prominent transhumanist advocates, such as Dan Agin, refer to transhumanism's critics, on the political right and left jointly, as "bioconservatives" or "bioluddites", the latter term alluding to the 19th century anti-industrialisation social movement that opposed the replacement of human manual labourers by machines.
0371: The same scenario happens when people have certain neural implants that give them an advantage in the work place and in educational aspects.
0372: Immortalism, a moral ideology based upon the belief that radical life extension and technological immortality is possible and desirable, and advocating research and development to ensure its realization.
0373: Gave an account of statecraft in a realistic point of view instead of relying on idealism.
0374: As a political theorist, he believed in separation of powers and proposed a comprehensive set of checks and balances that are necessary to protect the rights of an individual from the tyranny of the majority.
0375: Introduced the concept of "repressive desublimation", in which social control can operate not only by direct control, but also by manipulation of desire.
0376: Created the concept of ideology in the sense of (true or false) beliefs that shape and control social actions.
0377: Mencius: One of the most important thinkers in the Confucian school, he is the first theorist to make a coherent argument for an obligation of rulers to the ruled.
0378: Montesquieu: Analyzed protection of the people by a "balance of powers" in the divisions of a state.
0379: War or competition over resources may impact technological development or social dynamics.
0380: For example, Western restaurant chains and culinary brands sparked curiosity and fascination to the Chinese as China opened its economy to international trade in the late 20th-century.
0381: He argued that this immaturity comes not from a lack of understanding, but from a lack of courage to think independently.
0382: Moreover, Herder proposed a collective form of Bildung: "For Herder, Bildung was the totality of experiences that provide a coherent identity, and sense of common destiny, to a people."
0383: According to this school of thought, each ethnic group has a distinct worldview that is incommensurable with the worldviews of other groups.
0384: He proposed that a scientific comparison of all human societies would reveal that distinct worldviews consisted of the same basic elements.
0385: Aside from Steamboat Bill, Jr. (1928), Keaton's most enduring feature-length films include Our Hospitality (1923), The Navigator (1924), Sherlock Jr. (1924), Seven Chances (1925), The Cameraman (1928), and The General (1926).
0386: Though it would come to be regarded as Keaton's greatest achievement, the film received mixed reviews at the time.
0387: His distributor, United Artists, insisted on a production manager who monitored expenses and interfered with certain story elements.
0388: The actors would phonetically memorize the foreign-language scripts a few lines at a time and shoot immediately after.
0389: The director was usually Jules White, whose emphasis on slapstick and farce made most of these films resemble White's famous Three Stooges shorts.
0390: However, director White's insistence on blunt, violent gags resulted in the Columbia shorts being the least inventive comedies he made.
0391: However, the claims of such cultural universalism have been criticized by various 19th- and 20th-century social thinkers, including Marx, Nietzsche, Foucault, Derrida, Althusser, and Deleuze.
0392: An ethnic group or ethnicity is a grouping of people who identify with each other on the basis of shared attributes that distinguish them from other groups such as a common set of traditions, ancestry, language, history, society, culture, nation, religion, or social treatment within their residing area.
0393: Membership of an ethnic group tends to be defined by a shared cultural heritage, ancestry, origin myth, history, homeland, language, or dialect, symbolic systems such as religion, mythology and ritual, cuisine, dressing style, art, or physical appearance.
0394: By way of language shift, acculturation, adoption and religious conversion, individuals or groups may over time shift from one ethnic group to another.
0395: Whether through division or amalgamation, the formation of a separate ethnic identity is referred to as ethnogenesis.
0396: In Early Modern English and until the mid-19th century, ethnic was used to mean heathen or pagan (in the sense of disparate "nations" which did not yet participate in the Christian oikumene), as the Septuagint used ta ethne ("the nations") to translate the Hebrew goyim "the nations, non-Hebrews, non-Jews".
0397: If scientists mean that something applies to all species within a genus, they use the genus name without the specific name or epithet.
0398: As further information comes to hand, the hypothesis may be corroborated or refuted.
0399: Dividing a taxon into multiple, often new, taxa is called splitting.
0400: The term quasispecies is sometimes used for rapidly mutating entities like viruses.
0401: In ring species, when members of adjacent populations in a widely continuous distribution range interbreed successfully but members of more distant populations do not.
0402: Ring species thus present a difficulty for any species concept that relies on reproductive isolation.
0403: Stars were proven to be similar to the Earth's own Sun, but with a wide range of temperatures, masses, and sizes.
0404: Theoretical astronomy led to speculations on the existence of objects such as black holes and neutron stars, which have been used to explain such observed phenomena as quasars, pulsars, blazars, and radio galaxies.
0405: Observational astronomy may be categorized according to the corresponding region of the electromagnetic spectrum on which the observations are made.
0406: Although some radio waves are emitted directly by astronomical objects, a product of thermal emission, most of the radio emission that is observed is the result of synchrotron radiation, which is produced when electrons orbit magnetic fields.
0407: Observations from the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) have been particularly effective at unveiling numerous galactic protostars and their host star clusters.
0408: Images of observations were originally drawn by hand.
0409: Such clones are not strictly identical since the somatic cells may contain mutations in their nuclear DNA.
0410: Artificial embryo splitting or embryo twinning, a technique that creates monozygotic twins from a single embryo, is not considered in the same fashion as other methods of cloning.
0411: Dolly's embryo was created by taking the cell and inserting it into a sheep ovum.
0412: She was cloned at the Roslin Institute in Scotland by British scientists Sir Ian Wilmut and Keith Campbell and lived there from her birth in 1996 until her death in 2003 when she was six.
0413: Dolly was publicly significant because the effort showed that genetic material from a specific adult cell, designed to express only a distinct subset of its genes, can be redesigned to grow an entirely new organism.
0414: The first mammalian cloning (resulting in Dolly the sheep) had a success rate of 29 embryos per 277 fertilized eggs, which produced three lambs at birth, one of which lived.
0415: Mathematics (from Greek: ) includes the study of such topics as quantity (number theory), structure (algebra), space (geometry), and change (analysis).
0416: When mathematical structures are good models of real phenomena, mathematical reasoning can be used to provide insight or predictions about nature.
0417: The research required to solve mathematical problems can take years or even centuries of sustained inquiry.
0418: Mathematics developed at a relatively slow pace until the Renaissance, when mathematical innovations interacting with new scientific discoveries led to a rapid increase in the rate of mathematical discovery that has continued to the present day.
0419: As evidenced by tallies found on bone, in addition to recognizing how to count physical objects, prehistoric peoples may have also recognized how to count abstract quantities, like time—days, seasons, or years.
0420: Beginning in the 6th century BC with the Pythagoreans, with Greek mathematics the Ancient Greeks began a systematic study of mathematics as a subject in its own right.
0421: His interpreters have debated the content of his political philosophy.
0422: Plato: Wrote a lengthy dialog The Republic in which he laid out his political philosophy: citizens should be divided into three categories.
0423: Ayn Rand: Founder of Objectivism and prime mover of the Objectivist and Libertarian movements in mid-twentieth-century America.
0424: The government was to be separated from economics the same way and for the same reasons it was separated from religion.
0425: Adam Smith: Often said to have founded modern economics; explained emergence of economic benefits from the self-interested behavior ("the invisible hand") of artisans and traders.
0426: Socrates: Widely considered the founder of Western political philosophy, via his spoken influence on Athenian contemporaries; since Socrates never wrote anything, much of what we know about him and his teachings comes through his most famous student, Plato.
0427: a particular way of life, whether of a people, period or a group.
0428: In other words, the idea of "culture" that developed in Europe during the 18th and early 19th centuries reflected inequalities within European societies.
0429: According to this way of thinking, one could classify some countries and nations as more civilized than others and some people as more cultured than others.
0430: Other 19th-century critics, following Rousseau, have accepted this differentiation between higher and lower culture, but have seen the refinement and sophistication of high culture as corrupting and unnatural developments that obscure and distort people's essential nature.
0431: In 1870 the anthropologist Edward Tylor (1832–1917) applied these ideas of higher versus lower culture to propose a theory of the evolution of religion.
0432: For sociologist Georg Simmel (1858–1918), culture referred to "the cultivation of individuals through the agency of external forms which have been objectified in the course of history."
0433: He made his last starring feature El Moderno Barba Azul (1946) in Mexico; the film was a low-budget production, and it may not have been seen in the United States until its release on VHS in the 1980s, under the title Boom in the Moon.
0434: In In the Good Old Summertime, Keaton personally directed the stars Judy Garland and Van Johnson in their first scene together, where they bump into each other on the street.
0435: Reaction was strong enough for a local Los Angeles station to offer Keaton his own show, also broadcast live, in 1950.
0436: Buster Keaton's wife Eleanor also was seen in the series (notably as Juliet to Buster's Romeo in a little-theater vignette).
0437: Keaton's periodic television appearances during the 1950s and 1960s helped to revive interest in his silent films.
0438: Well into his fifties, Keaton successfully recreated his old routines, including one stunt in which he propped one foot onto a table, then swung the second foot up next to it and held the awkward position in midair for a moment before crashing to the stage floor.
0439: In the 19th century, the term came to be used in the sense of "peculiar to a race, people or nation", in a return to the original Greek meaning.
0440: ethnic, a. and n.") Depending on context, the term nationality may be used either synonymously with ethnicity or synonymously with citizenship (in a sovereign state).
0441: Whether ethnicity qualifies as a cultural universal is to some extent dependent on the exact definition used.
0442: According to Thomas Hylland Eriksen, the study of ethnicity was dominated by two distinct debates until recently.
0443: The instrumentalist approach, on the other hand, treats ethnicity primarily as an ad hoc element of a political strategy, used as a resource for interest groups for achieving secondary goals such as, for instance, an increase in wealth, power, or status.
0444: Constructivists view national and ethnic identities as the product of historical forces, often recent, even when the identities are presented as old.
0445: Speciation depends on a measure of reproductive isolation, a reduced gene flow.
0446: Bacteria can exchange plasmids with bacteria of other species, including some apparently distantly related ones in different phylogenetic domains, making analysis of their relationships difficult, and weakening the concept of a bacterial species.
0447: Mass extinctions had a variety of causes including volcanic activity, climate change, and changes in oceanic and atmospheric chemistry, and they in turn had major effects on Earth's ecology, atmosphere, land surface and waters.
0448: Some observers claim that there is an inherent conflict between the desire to understand the processes of speciation and the need to identify and to categorise.
0449: One of the classic cases in North America is that of the protected northern spotted owl which hybridises with the unprotected California spotted owl and the barred owl; this has led to legal debates.
0450: A form was distinguished by being shared by all its members, the young inheriting any variations they might have from their parents.
0451: Ultraviolet astronomy is best suited to the study of thermal radiation and spectral emission lines from hot blue stars (OB stars) that are very bright in this wave band.
0452: Gamma rays may be observed directly by satellites such as the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory or by specialized telescopes called atmospheric Cherenkov telescopes.
0453: Gravitational-wave astronomy is an emerging field of astronomy that employs gravitational-wave detectors to collect observational data about distant massive objects.
0454: Historically, accurate knowledge of the positions of the Sun, Moon, planets and stars has been essential in celestial navigation (the use of celestial objects to guide navigation) and in the making of calendars.
0455: The measurement of stellar parallax of nearby stars provides a fundamental baseline in the cosmic distance ladder that is used to measure the scale of the Universe.
0456: Analytical models of a process are better for giving broader insight into the heart of what is going on.
0457: Notably, although the first clones were frogs, no adult cloned frog has yet been produced from a somatic adult nucleus donor cell.
0458: However, other researchers, including Ian Wilmut who led the team that successfully cloned Dolly, argue that Dolly's early death due to respiratory infection was unrelated to problems with the cloning process.
0459: Soviet scientists Chaylakhyan, Veprencev, Sviridova, and Nikitin had the mouse "Masha" cloned.
0460: More akin to artificial formation of twins.
0461: Dog: Snuppy, a male Afghan hound was the first cloned dog (2005).
0462: Water buffalo: Samrupa was the first cloned water buffalo.
0463: The greatest mathematician of antiquity is often held to be Archimedes (c. 287–212 BC) of Syracuse.
0464: The Hindu–Arabic numeral system and the rules for the use of its operations, in use throughout the world today, evolved over the course of the first millennium AD in India and were transmitted to the Western world via Islamic mathematics.
0465: The most notable achievement of Islamic mathematics was the development of algebra.
0466: During the early modern period, mathematics began to develop at an accelerating pace in Western Europe.
0467: Perhaps the foremost mathematician of the 19th century was the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss, who made numerous contributions to fields such as algebra, analysis, differential geometry, matrix theory, number theory, and statistics.
0468: Mathematical discoveries continue to be made today.
0469: Max Stirner: Important thinker within anarchism and the main representative of the anarchist current known as individualist anarchism.
0470: Other forms of social philosophy include political philosophy and jurisprudence, which are largely concerned with the societies of state and government and their functioning.
0471: Pre-Socratic philosophy, also known as early Greek philosophy, is ancient Greek philosophy before Socrates.
0472: Their work and writing has been almost entirely lost.
0473: Pre-Socratic philosophy began in the 6th century BCE with the three Milesians: Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes.
0474: Xenophanes is known for his critique of the anthropomorphism of gods.
0475: Non-material culture refers to the non-physical ideas that individuals have about their culture, including values, belief systems, rules, norms, morals, language, organizations, and institutions, while material culture is the physical evidence of a culture in the objects and architecture they make or have made.
0476: Cultural sociology was then "reinvented" in the English-speaking world as a product of the "cultural turn" of the 1960s, which ushered in structuralist and postmodern approaches to social science.
0477: Culture" has since become an important concept across many branches of sociology, including resolutely scientific fields like social stratification and social network analysis.
0478: They saw patterns of consumption and leisure as determined by relations of production, which led them to focus on class relations and the organization of production.
0479: It has since become strongly associated with Stuart Hall, who succeeded Hoggart as Director.
0480: These practices comprise the ways people do particular things (such as watching television or eating out) in a given culture.
0481: Keaton had prints of the features Three Ages, Sherlock Jr., Steamboat Bill, Jr., and College (missing one reel), and the shorts "The Boat" and "My Wife's Relations", which Keaton and Rohauer then transferred to Cellulose acetate film from deteriorating nitrate film stock.
0482: In a series of silent television commercials for Simon Pure Beer made in 1962 by Jim Mohr in Buffalo, New York, Keaton revisited some of the gags from his silent film days.
0483: In December 1958, Keaton was a guest star in the episode "A Very Merry Christmas" of The Donna Reed Show on ABC.
0484: In 1960, he returned to MGM for the final time, playing a lion tamer in a 1960 adaptation of Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
0485: He worked with comedian Ernie Kovacs on a television pilot tentatively titled "Medicine Man," shooting scenes for it on January 12, 1962—the day before Kovacs died in a car crash. "
0486: He traveled from one end of Canada to the other on a motorized handcar, wearing his traditional pork pie hat and performing gags similar to those in films that he made 50 years before.
0487: This is in the context of debates over multiculturalism in countries, such as the United States and Canada, which have large immigrant populations from many different cultures, and post-colonialism in the Caribbean and South Asia.
0488: Third, group formation resulted from the drive to monopolize power and status.
0489: Barth went further than Weber in stressing the constructed nature of ethnicity.
0490: He wanted to part with anthropological notions of cultures as bounded entities, and ethnicity as primordialist bonds, replacing it with a focus on the interface between groups.
0491: He agrees with Joan Vincent's observation that (in Cohen's paraphrase) "Ethnicity... can be narrowed or broadened in boundary terms in relation to the specific needs of political mobilization.
0492: Ethnic groups came to be defined as social rather than biological entities.
0493: He established the idea of a taxonomic hierarchy of classification based upon observable characteristics and intended to reflect natural relationships.
0494: Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, in his 1809 Zoological Philosophy, described the transmutation of species, proposing that a species could change over time, in a radical departure from Aristotelian thinking.
0495: Genus (plural genera) is a taxonomic rank used in the biological classification of living and fossil organisms as well as viruses.
0496: E.g. Panthera leo (lion) and Panthera onca (jaguar) are two species within the genus Panthera.
0497: A botanical example would be Hibiscus arnottianus, a particular species of the genus Hibiscus native to Hawaii.
0498: Available names are those published in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature and not otherwise suppressed by subsequent decisions of the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN); the earliest such name for any taxon (for example, a genus) should then be selected as the "valid" (i.e., current or accepted) name for the taxon in question.
0499: The observation of a phenomenon predicted by a model allows astronomers to select between several alternate or conflicting models as the one best able to describe the phenomena.
0500: In some cases, a large amount of inconsistent data over time may lead to the total abandonment of a model.
0501: Because astrophysics is a very broad subject, astrophysicists typically apply many disciplines of physics, including mechanics, electromagnetism, statistical mechanics, thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, relativity, nuclear and particle physics, and atomic and molecular physics.
0502: The word "astrochemistry" may be applied to both the Solar System and the interstellar medium.
0503: The term exobiology is similar.
0504: Observations of the large-scale structure of the Universe, a branch known as physical cosmology, have provided a deep understanding of the formation and evolution of the cosmos.
0505: Camel: (2009) Injaz, is the first cloned camel.
0506: Goat: (2001) Scientists of Northwest A&F University successfully cloned the first goat which use the adult female cell.
0507: Conducted in China in 2017, and reported in January 2018.
0508: Black-footed ferret: (2020) In 2020, a team of scientists cloned a female named Willa, who died in the mid-1980s and left no living descendants.
0509: It does not refer to the natural conception and delivery of identical twins.
0510: As of right now, scientists have no intention of trying to clone people and they believe their results should spark a wider discussion about the laws and regulations the world needs to regulate cloning.
0511: In particular, mathēmatikḗ tékhnē meant "the mathematical art."
0512: In English, the noun mathematics takes a singular verb.
0513: However, Aristotle also noted a focus on quantity alone may not distinguish mathematics from sciences like physics; in his view, abstraction and studying quantity as a property "separable in thought" from real instances set mathematics apart.
0514: A peculiarity of intuitionism is that it rejects some mathematical ideas considered valid according to other definitions.
0515: Haskell Curry defined mathematics simply as "the science of formal systems".
0516: Popper also noted that "I shall certainly admit a system as empirical or scientific only if it is capable of being tested by experience."
0517: The Eleatic school (Parmenides, Zeno of Elea, and Melissus) followed in the 5th century BCE.
0518: Anaxagoras and Empedocles offered a pluralistic account of how the universe was created.
0519: It was first used by the German philosopher J.A. Eberhard as "vorsokratische Philosophie''' in the late 18th century.
0520: The term comes with drawbacks, as several of the pre-Socratics were highly interested in ethics and how to live the best life.
0521: According to James Warren, the distinction between the pre-Socratic philosophers and philosophers of the classical era is demarcated not so much by Socrates, but by geography and what texts survived.
0522: Scholar André Laks distinguishes two traditions of separating pre-Socratics from Socratics, dating back to the classical era and running through current times.
0523: Watching television to view a public perspective on a historical event should not be thought of as culture unless referring to the medium of television itself, which may have been selected culturally; however, schoolchildren watching television after school with their friends to "fit in" certainly qualifies since there is no grounded reason for one's participation in this practice.
0524: Culture" for a cultural-studies researcher not only includes traditional high culture (the culture of ruling social groups) and popular culture, but also everyday meanings and practices.
0525: Scholars in the United Kingdom and the United States developed somewhat different versions of cultural studies after the late 1970s.
0526: The distinction between American and British strands, however, has faded.
0527: The main focus of an orthodox Marxist approach concentrates on the production of meaning.
0528: Other approaches to cultural studies, such as feminist cultural studies and later American developments of the field, distance themselves from this view.
0529: Also in 1965, he traveled to Italy to play a role in Due Marines e un Generale, co-starring Franco Franchi and Ciccio Ingrassia.
0530: One of his most biting parodies is The Frozen North (1922), a satirical take on William S. Hart's Western melodramas, like Hell's Hinges (1916) and The Narrow Trail (1917).
0531: Audiences of the 1920s recognized the parody and thought the film hysterically funny.
0532: The short also featured the impression of a performing monkey which was likely derived from a co-biller's act (called Peter the Great).
0533: Note: Source misspells Keaton's frequent appellation as "Great Stoneface".
0534: Keaton dated actress Dorothy Sebastian beginning in the 1920s and Kathleen Key in the early 1930s.
0535: Examples of various approaches are primordialism, essentialism, perennialism, constructivism, modernism, and instrumentalism.
0536: "Essentialist primordialism" further holds that ethnicity is an a priori fact of human existence, that ethnicity precedes any human social interaction and that it is unchanged by it.
0537: "Kinship primordialism" holds that ethnic communities are extensions of kinship units, basically being derived by kinship or clan ties where the choices of cultural signs (language, religion, traditions) are made exactly to show this biological affinity.
0538: "Geertz's primordialism", notably espoused by anthropologist Clifford Geertz, argues that humans in general attribute an overwhelming power to primordial human "givens" such as blood ties, language, territory, and cultural differences.
0539: Smith (1999) distinguishes two variants: "continuous perennialism", which claims that particular nations have existed for very long periods, and "recurrent perennialism", which focuses on the emergence, dissolution and reappearance of nations as a recurring aspect of human history.
0540: This view holds that the concept of ethnicity is a tool used by political groups to manipulate resources such as wealth, power, territory or status in their particular groups' interests.
0541: In botany, similar concepts exist but with different labels.
0542: However, many names have been assigned (usually unintentionally) to two or more different genera.
0543: A name that means two different things is a homonym.
0544: However, a genus in one kingdom is allowed to bear a scientific name that is in use as a generic name (or the name of a taxon in another rank) in a kingdom that is governed by a different nomenclature code.
0545: For instance, among (non-avian) reptiles, which have about 1180 genera, the most (>300) have only 1 species, ~360 have between 2 and 4 species, 260 have 5–10 species, ~200 have 11–50 species, and only 27 genera have more than 50 species.
0546: Which species are assigned to a genus is somewhat arbitrary.
0547: A hierarchical structure of matter began to form from minute variations in the mass density of space.
0548: Gravitational aggregations clustered into filaments, leaving voids in the gaps.
0549: Various fields of physics are crucial to studying the universe.
0550: Finally, the latter is important for the understanding of the large-scale structure of the cosmos.
0551: As the name suggests, an elliptical galaxy has the cross-sectional shape of an ellipse.
0552: Elliptical galaxies are more commonly found at the core of galactic clusters, and may have been formed through mergers of large galaxies.
0553: While many of these views are religious in origin, the questions raised by cloning are faced by secular perspectives as well.
0554: Opponents of cloning have concerns that technology is not yet developed enough to be safe and that it could be prone to abuse (leading to the generation of humans from whom organs and tissues would be harvested), as well as concerns about how cloned individuals could integrate with families and with society at large.
0555: This is also referred to as "Conservation cloning".
0556: These successes provided hope that similar techniques (using surrogate mothers of another species) might be used to clone extinct species.
0557: In 2002, geneticists at the Australian Museum announced that they had replicated DNA of the thylacine (Tasmanian tiger), at the time extinct for about 65 years, using polymerase chain reaction.
0558: In 2003, for the first time, an extinct animal, the Pyrenean ibex mentioned above was cloned, at the Centre of Food Technology and Research of Aragon, using the preserved frozen cell nucleus of the skin samples from 2001 and domestic goat egg-cells.
0559: Intuition and experimentation also play a role in the formulation of conjectures in both mathematics and the (other) sciences.
0560: For example, the physicist Richard Feynman invented the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics using a combination of mathematical reasoning and physical insight, and today's string theory, a still-developing scientific theory which attempts to unify the four fundamental forces of nature, continues to inspire new mathematics.
0561: A distinction is often made between pure mathematics and applied mathematics.
0562: As in most areas of study, the explosion of knowledge in the scientific age has led to specialization: there are now hundreds of specialized areas in mathematics and the latest Mathematics Subject Classification runs to 46 pages.
0563: Many mathematicians talk about the elegance of mathematics, its intrinsic aesthetics and inner beauty.
0564: G. H. Hardy in A Mathematician's Apology expressed the belief that these aesthetic considerations are, in themselves, sufficient to justify the study of pure mathematics.
0565: Many of the works are titled Peri Physeos, or On Nature, a title probably attributed later by other authors.
0566: Adding more difficulty to their interpretation is the obscure language they used.
0567: Theophrastus, Aristotle's successor, wrote an encyclopedic book Opinion of the Physicists that was the standard work about the pre-Socratics in ancient times.
0568: Scholars now use this book to reference the fragments using a coding scheme called Diels–Kranz numbering.
0569: After that is a code regarding whether the fragment is a testimonia, coded as "A", or "B" if is a direct quote from the philosopher.
0570: The pre-Socratic era lasted about two centuries, during which the expanding Persian Achaemenid Empire was stretching to the west, while the Greeks were advancing in trade and sea routes, reaching Cyprus and Syria.
0571: Culture psychologists began to try to explore the relationship between emotions and culture, and answer whether the human mind is independent from culture.
0572: On the other hand, some researchers try to look for differences between people's personalities across cultures.
0573: For example, people who are raised in a culture with an abacus are trained with distinctive reasoning style.
0574: Basically, the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict and the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Cultural Diversity deal with the protection of culture.
0575: Under international law, the UN and UNESCO try to set up and enforce rules for this.
0576: The target of the attack is the identity of the opponent, which is why symbolic cultural assets become a main target.
0577: He escaped a straitjacket with tricks learned from Harry Houdini.
0578: She filed for divorce in 1935 after finding Keaton with Leah Clampitt Sewell, the wife of millionaire Barton Sewell, in a hotel in Santa Barbara.
0579: He stopped drinking for five years.
0580: The marriage lasted until his death.
0581: Confined to a hospital during his final days, Keaton was restless and paced the room endlessly, desiring to return home.
0582: The screenplay, by Sidney Sheldon, who also directed the film, was loosely based on Keaton's life but contained many factual errors and merged his three wives into one character.
0583: "Instrumentalist perennialism", while seeing ethnicity primarily as a versatile tool that identified different ethnics groups and limits through time, explains ethnicity as a mechanism of social stratification, meaning that ethnicity is the basis for a hierarchical arrangement of individuals.
0584: According to Donald Noel, ethnic stratification will emerge only when specific ethnic groups are brought into contact with one another, and only when those groups are characterized by a high degree of ethnocentrism, competition, and differential power.
0585: Continuing with Noel's theory, some degree of differential power must be present for the emergence of ethnic stratification.
0586: The different ethnic groups must be competing for some common goal, such as power or influence, or a material interest, such as wealth or territory.
0587: It holds that ethnic groups are only products of human social interaction, maintained only in so far as they are maintained as valid social constructs in societies.
0588: They hold that prior to this ethnic homogeneity was not considered an ideal or necessary factor in the forging of large-scale societies.
0589: What belongs to a family—or if a described family should be recognized at all—are proposed and determined by practicing taxonomists.
0590: Often there is no exact agreement, with different taxonomists each taking a different position.
0591: Michael Novacek (1986) inserted them at the same position.
0592: There are no objective rules for describing a class, but for well-known animals there is likely to be consensus.
0593: In botany, classes are now rarely discussed.
0594: Informally, phyla can be thought of as groupings of organisms based on general specialization of body plan.
0595: Spiral galaxies are typically surrounded by a halo of older stars.
0596: About a quarter of all galaxies are irregular, and the peculiar shapes of such galaxies may be the result of gravitational interaction.
0597: A radio galaxy is an active galaxy that is very luminous in the radio portion of the spectrum, and is emitting immense plumes or lobes of gas.
0598: The large-scale structure of the cosmos is represented by groups and clusters of galaxies.
0599: In the center of the Milky Way is the core, a bar-shaped bulge with what is believed to be a supermassive black hole at its center.
0600: The disk is surrounded by a spheroid halo of older, population II stars, as well as relatively dense concentrations of stars known as globular clusters.
0601: "Когда вернутся мамонты" ("When the Mammoths Return"), 5 February 2015 (retrieved 6 September 2015) Another problem is the survival of the reconstructed mammoth: ruminants rely on a symbiosis with specific microbiota in their stomachs for digestion.
0602: Because of this, some posited she may have aged more quickly than other naturally born animals, as she died relatively early for a sheep at the age of six.
0603: However, early pregnancy loss and neonatal losses are still greater with cloning than natural conception or assisted reproduction (IVF).
0604: The concept of cloning, particularly human cloning, has featured a wide variety of science fiction works.
0605: Many works depict the artificial creation of humans by a method of growing cells from a tissue or DNA sample; the replication may be instantaneous, or take place through slow growth of human embryos in artificial wombs.
0606: Science fiction films such as The Matrix and Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones have featured scenes of human foetuses being cultured on an industrial scale in mechanical tanks.
0607: A theorem expressed as a characterization of the object by these features is the prize.
0608: Euler (1707–1783) was responsible for many of the notations in use today.
0609: Unlike natural language, where people can often equate a word (such as cow) with the physical object it corresponds to, mathematical symbols are abstract, lacking any physical analog.
0610: Mathematical language also includes many technical terms such as homeomorphism and integrable that have no meaning outside of mathematics.
0611: Mathematicians refer to this precision of language and logic as "rigor".
0612: This is to avoid mistaken "theorems", based on fallible intuitions, of which many instances have occurred in the history of the subject.
0613: The Greeks revolted in 499 BCE, but ultimately were defeated in 494 BCE.
0614: Several factors contributed to the birth of pre-Socratic philosophy in Ancient Greece.
0615: Another factor was the ease and frequency of intra-Greek travel, which led to the blending and comparison of ideas.
0616: The democratic political system of independent poleis also contributed to the rise of philosophy.
0617: The philosophers' ideas, were, to a certain extent, answers to questions that were subtly present in the work of Homer and Hesiod.
0618: They are considered predecessors of the pre-Socratics since they seek to address the origin of the world and to organize traditional folklore and legends systematically.
0619: A festival is an event ordinarily celebrated by a community and centering on some characteristic aspect of that community and its religion or cultures.
0620: Next to religion and folklore, a significant origin is agricultural.
0621: Festivals often serve to fulfill specific communal purposes, especially in regard to commemoration or thanking to the gods, goddesses or saints: they're called patronal festivals.
0622: In Ancient Greece and Rome, festivals such as the Saturnalia were closely associated with social organisation and political processes as well as religion.
0623: In Middle English, a "festival dai" was a religious holiday.
0624: The term "feast" is also used in common secular parlance as a synonym for any large or elaborate meal.
0625: Dedicated to bringing greater public attention to Keaton's life and work, the membership includes many individuals from the television and film industry: actors, producers, authors, artists, graphic novelists, musicians, and designers, as well as those who simply admire the magic of Buster Keaton.
0626: Hirschfeld said that modern film stars were more difficult to depict, that silent film comedians such as Laurel and Hardy and Keaton "looked like their caricatures".
0627: Film critic Roger Ebert stated, "The greatest of the silent clowns is Buster Keaton, not only because of what he did, but because of how he did it.
0628: Filmmaker Mel Brooks has credited Buster Keaton as a major influence, saying: "I owe (Buster) a lot on two levels: One for being such a great teacher for me as a filmmaker myself, and the other just as a human being watching this gifted person doing these amazing things.
0629: Actor and stunt performer Johnny Knoxville cites Keaton as an inspiration when coming up with ideas for Jackass projects.
0630: Lewis was particularly moved by the fact that Eleanor said his eyes looked like Keaton's.
0631: Members of an ethnic group, on the whole, claim cultural continuities over time, although historians and cultural anthropologists have documented that many of the values, practices, and norms that imply continuity with the past are of relatively recent invention.
0632: It is based on the notion of "culture".
0633: This view arose as a way to justify enslavement of African Americans and genocide of Native Americans in a society that was officially founded on freedom for all.
0634: Many of the foremost scientists of the time took up the idea of racial difference and found that white Europeans were superior.
0635: Instead of attributing the marginalized status of people of color in the United States to their inherent biological inferiority, he attributed it to their failure to assimilate into American culture.
0636: They argue in Racial Formation in the United States that the ethnicity theory was exclusively based on the immigration patterns of the white population and did take into account the unique experiences of non-whites in the United States.
0637: So phyla can be merged or split if it becomes apparent that they are related to one another or not.
0638: By Budd and Jensen's definition, a phylum is defined by a set of characters shared by all its living representatives.
0639: However, as it is character based, it is easy to apply to the fossil record.
0640: However, proving that a fossil belongs to the crown group of a phylum is difficult, as it must display a character unique to a sub-set of the crown group.
0641: The table below follows the influential (though contentious) Cavalier-Smith system in equating "Plantae" with Archaeplastida, a group containing Viridiplantae and the algal Rhodophyta and Glaucophyta divisions.
0642: The division Pinophyta may be used for all gymnosperms (i.e. including cycads, ginkgos and gnetophytes), or for conifers alone as below.
0643: These begin as a compact pre-stellar core or dark nebulae, which concentrate and collapse (in volumes determined by the Jeans length) to form compact protostars.
0644: These clusters gradually disperse, and the stars join the population of the Milky Way.
0645: 7–18 Star formation occurs in dense regions of dust and gas, known as giant molecular clouds.
0646: Almost all elements heavier than hydrogen and helium were created inside the cores of stars.
0647: Over time, this hydrogen fuel is completely converted into helium, and the star begins to evolve.
0648: The ejection of the outer layers forms a planetary nebula.
0649: A Number was adapted by Caryl Churchill for television, in a co-production between the BBC and HBO Films.
0650: She grew up always doubtful about the love from her mother, who looked nothing like her and who died nine years before.
0651: In the 1976 Ira Levin novel The Boys from Brazil and its 1978 film adaptation, Josef Mengele uses cloning to create copies of Adolf Hitler.
0652: In Doctor Who, an alien race of armour-clad, warlike beings called Sontarans was introduced in the 1973 serial "The Time Warrior".
0653: The concept of cloned soldiers being bred for combat was revisited in "The Doctor's Daughter" (2008), when the Doctor's DNA is used to create a female warrior called Jenny.
0654: The 2005 Kazuo Ishiguro novel Never Let Me Go and the 2010 film adaption are set in an alternate history in which cloned humans are created for the sole purpose of providing organ donations to naturally born humans, despite the fact that they are fully sentient and self-aware.
0655: Misunderstanding the rigor is a cause for some of the common misconceptions of mathematics.
0656: On the other hand, proof assistants allow verifying all details that cannot be given in a hand-written proof, and provide certainty of the correctness of long proofs such as that of the Feit–Thompson theorem.
0657: In addition to these main concerns, there are also subdivisions dedicated to exploring links from the heart of mathematics to other fields: to logic, to set theory (foundations), to the empirical mathematics of the various sciences (applied mathematics), and more recently to the rigorous study of uncertainty.
0658: Some disagreement about the foundations of mathematics continues to the present day.
0659: As such, it is home to Gödel's incompleteness theorems which (informally) imply that any effective formal system that contains basic arithmetic, if sound (meaning that all theorems that can be proved are true), is necessarily incomplete (meaning that there are true theorems which cannot be proved in that system).
0660: Modern logic is divided into recursion theory, model theory, and proof theory, and is closely linked to theoretical computer science, as well as to category theory.
0661: The first pre-Socratic philosophers also traveled extensively to other lands, meaning that pre-Socratic thought had roots abroad as well as domestically.
0662: The pre-Socratic philosophers shared the intuition that there was a single explanation that could explain both the plurality and the singularity of the whole – and that explanation would not be direct actions of the gods.
0663: Many sought the material principle (arche) of things, and the method of their origin and disappearance.
0664: In their effort to make sense of the cosmos they coined new terms and concepts such as rhythm, symmetry, analogy, deductionism, reductionism, mathematicazion of nature and others.
0665: It could mean the beginning or origin with the undertone that there is an effect on the things to follow.
0666: This may have been because of a lack of instruments, or because of a tendency to view the world as a unity, undeconstructable, so it would be impossible for an external eye to observe tiny fractions of nature under experimental control.
0667: The most important religious festivals such as Christmas, Rosh Hashanah, Diwali, Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha serve to mark out the year.
0668: An early example is the festival established by Ancient Egyptian Pharaoh Ramesses III celebrating his victory over the Libyans.
0669: There are numerous types of festivals in the world and most countries celebrate important events or traditions with traditional cultural events and activities.
0670: Ancient Egyptian festivals could be either religious or political.
0671: The Sed festival, for example, celebrated the thirtieth year of an Egyptian pharaoh's rule and then every three (or four in one case) years after that.
0672: In the Christian liturgical calendar, there are two principal feasts, properly known as the Feast of the Nativity of our Lord (Christmas) and the Feast of the Resurrection (Easter), but minor festivals in honour of local patron saints are celebrated in almost all countries influenced by Christianity.
0673: In 1964, he told an interviewer that in making "this particular pork pie", he "started with a good Stetson and cut it down", stiffening the brim with sugar water.
0674: His paternal great-grandparents were Welsh.
0675: Lloyd began collaborating with Roach who had formed his own studio in 1913.
0676: In 1919, she left Lloyd to pursue her dramatic aspirations.
0677: Reportedly, the more Lloyd watched Davis the more he liked her.
0678: Harold Lloyd would move away from tragicomic personas, and portray an everyman with unwavering confidence and optimism.
0679: Assimilation shedding the particular qualities of a native culture for the purpose of blending in with a host culture did not work for some groups as a response to racism and discrimination, though it did for others.
0680: They culminated in the rise of "nation-states" in which the presumptive boundaries of the nation coincided (or ideally coincided) with state boundaries.
0681: Nation-states, however, invariably include populations who have been excluded from national life for one reason or another.
0682: Multi-ethnic states can be the result of two opposite events, either the recent creation of state borders at variance with traditional tribal territories, or the recent immigration of ethnic minorities into a former nation-state.
0683: States such as the United Kingdom, France and Switzerland comprised distinct ethnic groups from their formation and have likewise experienced substantial immigration, resulting in what has been termed "multicultural" societies, especially in large cities.
0684: Though these categories are usually discussed as belonging to the public, political sphere, they are upheld within the private, family sphere to a great extent.
0685: Protista is a polyphyletic taxon, which is less acceptable to present-day biologists than in the past.
0686: Carl Linnaeus (1707–1778) laid the foundations for modern biological nomenclature, now regulated by the Nomenclature Codes, in 1735.
0687: In 1937 Édouard Chatton introduced the terms "prokaryote" and "eukaryote" to differentiate these organisms.
0688: Robert Whittaker recognized an additional kingdom for the Fungi.
0689: The remaining two kingdoms, Protista and Monera, included unicellular and simple cellular colonies.
0690: In other systems, such as Lynn Margulis's system of five kingdoms, the plants included just the land plants (Embryophyta), and Protoctista has a broader definition.
0691: This is an 11-year oscillation in sunspot number.
0692: The Sun has also undergone periodic changes in luminosity that can have a significant impact on the Earth.
0693: Above this layer is a thin region known as the chromosphere.
0694: Above the core is the radiation zone, where the plasma conveys the energy flux by means of radiation.
0695: A solar wind of plasma particles constantly streams outward from the Sun until, at the outermost limit of the Solar System, it reaches the heliopause.
0696: The planets were formed 4.6 billion years ago in the protoplanetary disk that surrounded the early Sun.
0697: In the futuristic novel Cloud Atlas and subsequent film, one of the story lines focuses on a genetically-engineered fabricant clone named Sonmi~451, one of millions raised in an artificial "wombtank", destined to serve from birth.
0698: In the film Us, at some point prior to the 1980s, the US Government creates clones of every citizen of the United States with the intention of using them to control their original counterparts, akin to voodoo dolls.
0699: In the present day, the clones launch a surprise attack and manage to complete a mass-genocide of their unaware counterparts.
0700: Genes have been transferred within the same species, across species (creating transgenic organisms), and even across kingdoms.
0701: Genetic engineers must isolate the gene they wish to insert into the host organism and combine it with other genetic elements, including a promoter and terminator region and often a selectable marker.
0702: Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen made the first genetically modified organism in 1973, a bacterium resistant to the antibiotic kanamycin.
0703: Computability theory examines the limitations of various theoretical models of the computer, including the most well-known model—the Turing machine.
0704: Consideration of the natural numbers also leads to the transfinite numbers, which formalize the concept of "infinity".
0705: Thus one can study groups, rings, fields and other abstract systems; together such studies (for structures defined by algebraic operations) constitute the domain of abstract algebra.
0706: Trigonometry is the branch of mathematics that deals with relationships between the sides and the angles of triangles and with the trigonometric functions.
0707: Convex and discrete geometry were developed to solve problems in number theory and functional analysis but now are pursued with an eye on applications in optimization and computer science.
0708: Lie groups are used to study space, structure, and change.
0709: Systematic because they tried to universalize their findings.
0710: The pre-Socratics were not atheists; however, they minimized the extent of the gods' involvement in natural phenomena such as thunder or totally eliminated the gods from the natural world.
0711: The first phase of pre-Socratic philosophy, mainly the Milesians, Xenophanes, and Heraclitus, consisted of rejecting traditional cosmogony and attempting to explain nature based on empirical observations and interpretations.
0712: The Eleatics were also monists (believing that only one thing exists and everything else is just a transformation of it).
0713: He is considered the first western philosopher since he was the first to use reason, to use proof, and to generalize.
0714: Thales may have been of Phoenician ancestry.
0715: Buddhist religious festivals, such as Esala Perahera are held in Sri Lanka and Thailand.
0716: Film festivals involve the screenings of several different films, and are usually held annually.
0717: There are also specific beverage festivals, such as the famous Oktoberfest in Germany for beer.
0718: Ancient Egyptians relied upon the seasonal inundation caused by the Nile River, a form of irrigation, which provided fertile land for crops.
0719: Dree Festival of the Apatanis living in Lower Subansiri District of Arunachal Pradesh is celebrated every year from July 4 to 7 by praying for a bumper crop harvest.
0720: A holiday is a day set aside by custom or by law on which normal activities, especially business or work including school, are suspended or reduced.
0721: To create his new character Lloyd donned a pair of lensless horn-rimmed glasses but wore normal clothing; previously, he had worn a fake mustache and ill-fitting clothes as the Chaplinesque "Lonesome Luke". "
0722: They were natural and the romance could be believable."
0723: On Sunday, August 24, 1919, while posing for some promotional still photographs in the Los Angeles Witzel Photography Studio, he picked up what he thought was a prop bomb and lit it with a cigarette.
0724: Lloyd was in the act of lighting a cigarette from the fuse of the bomb when it exploded, also badly burning his face and chest and injuring his eye.
0725: Lloyd and Roach parted ways in 1924, and Lloyd became the independent producer of his own films.
0726: All of these films were enormously successful and profitable, and Lloyd would eventually become the highest paid film performer of the 1920s.
0727: Before Weber (1864–1920), race and ethnicity were primarily seen as two aspects of the same thing.
0728: According to this view, the state should not acknowledge ethnic, national or racial identity but rather instead enforce political and legal equality of all individuals.
0729: The 19th century saw the development of the political ideology of ethnic nationalism, when the concept of race was tied to nationalism, first by German theorists including Johann Gottfried von Herder.
0730: Each promoted the pan-ethnic idea that these governments were acquiring only lands that had always been inhabited by ethnic Germans.
0731: The colonization of Asia was largely ended in the 20th century, with national drives for independence and self-determination across the continent.
0732: A number of European countries, including France and Switzerland, do not collect information on the ethnicity of their resident population.
0733: Technological advances in electron microscopy allowed the separation of the Chromista from the Plantae kingdom.
0734: Finally, some protists lacking mitochondria were discovered.
0735: This superkingdom was opposed to the Metakaryota superkingdom, grouping together the five other eukaryotic kingdoms (Animalia, Protozoa, Fungi, Plantae and Chromista).
0736: Cavalier-Smith no longer accepted the importance of the fundamental Eubacteria–Archaebacteria divide put forward by Woese and others and supported by recent research.
0737: Cavalier-Smith does not accept the requirement for taxa to be monophyletic ("holophyletic" in his terminology) to be valid.
0738: The advances of phylogenetic studies allowed Cavalier-Smith to realize that all the phyla thought to be archezoans (i.e. primitively amitochondriate eukaryotes) had in fact secondarily lost their mitochondria, typically by transforming them into new organelles: Hydrogenosomes.
0739: The planets continued to sweep up, or eject, the remaining matter during a period of intense bombardment, evidenced by the many impact craters on the Moon.
0740: This process can form a stony or metallic core, surrounded by a mantle and an outer crust.
0741: Some planets and moons accumulate enough heat to drive geologic processes such as volcanism and tectonics.
0742: Astrostatistics is the application of statistics to astrophysics to the analysis of a vast amount of observational astrophysical data.
0743: Cosmochemistry is the study of the chemicals found within the Solar System, including the origins of the elements and variations in the isotope ratios.
0744: Astronomy clubs are located throughout the world and many have programs to help their members set up and complete observational programs including those to observe all the objects in the Messier (110 objects) or Herschel 400 catalogues of points of interest in the night sky.
0745: The first genetically modified animal to be commercialized was the GloFish (2003) and the first genetically modified animal to be approved for food use was the AquAdvantage salmon in 2015.
0746: Fungi have been engineered with much the same goals.
0747: There are proposals to remove the virulent genes from viruses to create vaccines.
0748: The majority are engineered for herbicide tolerance or insect resistance.
0749: Animals are generally much harder to transform and the vast majority are still at the research stage.
0750: Livestock is modified with the intention of improving economically important traits such as growth rate, quality of meat, milk composition, disease resistance, and survival.
0751: Functions arise here as a central concept describing a changing quantity.
0752: One of many applications of functional analysis is quantum mechanics.
0753: Statisticians (working as part of a research project) "create data that makes sense" with random sampling and with randomized experiments; the design of a statistical sample or experiment specifies the analysis of the data (before the data becomes available).
0754: Numerical analysis studies methods for problems in analysis using functional analysis and approximation theory; numerical analysis includes the study of approximation and discretisation broadly with special concern for rounding errors.
0755: The Chern Medal was introduced in 2010 to recognize lifetime achievement.
0756: This list achieved great celebrity among mathematicians, and at least nine of the problems have now been solved.
0757: Thales, though, advanced geometry with his abstract deductive reasoning reaching universal generalizations.
0758: Thales visited Sardis, as many Greeks then, where astronomical records were kept and used astronomical observations for practical matters (oil harvesting).
0759: He attributed the origin of the world to an element instead of a divine being.
0760: He was a member of the elite of Miletus, wealthy and a statesman.
0761: In response to Thales, he postulated as the first principle an undefined, unlimited substance without qualities (apeiron), out of which the primary opposites, hot and cold, moist and dry, became differentiated.
0762: He is also known for speculating on the origin of mankind.
0763: The degree to which normal activities are reduced by a holiday may depend on local laws, customs, the type of job held or personal choices.
0764: In most modern societies, however, holidays serve as much of a recreational function as any other weekend days or activities.
0765: In some cases, a holiday may only be nominally observed.
0766: The modern use varies geographically.
0767: For example, Monkey Day is celebrated on December 14, International Talk Like a Pirate Day is observed on September 19, and Blasphemy Day is held on September 30.
0768: Jehovah's Witnesses annually commemorate "The Memorial of Jesus Christ's Death", but do not celebrate other holidays with any religious significance such as Easter, Christmas or New Year's.
0769: However, his go-getting screen character was out of touch with Great Depression movie audiences of the 1930s.
0770: On March 23, 1937, Lloyd sold the land of his studio, Harold Lloyd Motion Picture Company, to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
0771: He returned for an additional starring appearance in The Sin of Harold Diddlebock, an ill-fated homage to Lloyd's career, directed by Preston Sturges and financed by Howard Hughes.
0772: Lloyd and Sturges had different conceptions of the material and fought frequently during the shoot; Lloyd was particularly concerned that while Sturges had spent three to four months on the script of the first third of the film, "the last two-thirds of it he wrote in a week or less".
0773: Some saw The Old Gold Comedy Theater as being a lighter version of Lux Radio Theater, and it featured some of the best-known film and radio personalities of the day, including Fred Allen, June Allyson, Lucille Ball, Ralph Bellamy, Linda Darnell, Susan Hayward, Herbert Marshall, Dick Powell, Edward G. Robinson, Jane Wyman, and Alan Young.
0774: Many years later, acetate discs of 29 of the shows were discovered in Lloyd's home, and they now circulate among old-time radio collectors.
0775: During European colonization, Europeans arrived in North America.
0776: Digital ethnography allows for a lot more opportunities to look at different cultures and societies.
0777: Relational Ethnography articulates studying fields rather than places or processes rather than processed people.
0778: The goal is to collect data in such a way that the researcher imposes a minimal amount of personal bias in the data.
0779: Interviews are often taped and later transcribed, allowing the interview to proceed unimpaired of note-taking, but with all information available later for full analysis.
0780: Despite these attempts of reflexivity, no researcher can be totally unbiased.
0781: Based on such RNA studies, Carl Woese thought life could be divided into three large divisions and referred to them as the "three primary kingdom" model or "urkingdom" model.
0782: Woese divided the prokaryotes (previously classified as the Kingdom Monera) into two groups, called Eubacteria and Archaebacteria, stressing that there was as much genetic difference between these two groups as between either of them and all eukaryotes.
0783: They held that only monophyletic groups should be accepted as formal ranks in a classification and that – while this approach had been impractical previously (necessitating "literally dozens of eukaryotic 'kingdoms) – it had now become possible to divide the eukaryotes into "just a few major groups that are probably all monophyletic".
0784: It divided the eukaryotes into the same six "supergroups".
0785: Plants are thought to be more distantly related to animals and fungi.
0786: The ten arguments against include the fact that they are obligate intracellular parasites that lack metabolism and are not capable of replication outside of a host cell.
0787: Most amateurs work at visible wavelengths, but a small minority experiment with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum.
0788: A number of amateur astronomers use either homemade telescopes or use radio telescopes which were originally built for astronomy research but which are now available to amateurs (e.g. the One-Mile Telescope).
0789: Answers to these may require the construction of new ground- and space-based instruments, and possibly new developments in theoretical and experimental physics.
0790: A deeper understanding of the formation of stars and planets is needed.
0791: If so, what is the explanation for the Fermi paradox?
0792: What is the nature of dark matter and dark energy?
0793: Although human gene therapy is still relatively new, it has been used to treat genetic disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, and Leber's congenital amaurosis.
0794: Other concerns are the objectivity and rigor of regulatory authorities, contamination of non-genetically modified food, control of the food supply, patenting of life and the use of intellectual property rights.
0795: Countries have adopted regulatory measures to deal with these concerns.
0796: A broad definition of genetic engineering also includes selective breeding and other means of artificial selection.",
0797: For example, the grain crop triticale was fully developed in a laboratory in 1930 using various techniques to alter its genome.
0798: Modern biotechnology is further defined as "In vitro nucleic acid techniques, including recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and direct injection of nucleic acid into cells or organelles, or fusion of cells beyond the taxonomic family."
0799: The value of Pi was first calculated by him.
0800: It was the Pythagoreans who coined the term "mathematics", and with whom the study of mathematics for its own sake begins.
0801: Because of a political dispute, the Christian community in Alexandria punished her, presuming she was involved, by stripping her naked and scraping off her skin with clamshells (some say roofing tiles).
0802: Funding for translation of scientific texts in other languages was ongoing throughout the reign of certain caliphs, and it turned out that certain scholars became experts in the works they translated and in turn received further support for continuing to develop certain sciences.
0803: A notable feature of many scholars working under Muslim rule in medieval times is that they were often polymaths.
0804: During this period of transition from a mainly feudal and ecclesiastical culture to a predominantly secular one, many notable mathematicians had other occupations: Luca Pacioli (founder of accounting); Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia (notable engineer and bookkeeper); Gerolamo Cardano (earliest founder of probability and binomial expansion); Robert Recorde (physician) and François Viète (lawyer).
0805: He also wrote a book on nature in prose.
0806: He was a well-traveled poet whose primary interests were theology and epistemology.
0807: He famously said that if oxen, horses, or lions could draw, they would draw their gods as oxen, horses, or lions.
0808: Xenophanes also offered naturalistic explanations for phenomena such as the sun, the rainbow and St. Elmo's fire.
0809: While Xenophanes was a pessimist about the capability of humans to reach knowledge, he also believed in gradual progress through critical thinking.
0810: Heraclitus posited that all things in nature are in a state of perpetual flux.
0811: Ahmadi Muslims additionally celebrate Promised Messiah Day, Promised Reformer Day, and Khilafat Day, but contrary to popular belief, neither are regarded as holidays.
0812: Celtic, Norse, and Neopagan holidays follow the order of the Wheel of the Year.
0813: Researchers in bioarchaeology combine the skill sets of human osteology, paleopathology, and archaeology, and often consider the cultural and mortuary context of the remains.
0814: Evolutionary psychology is the study of psychological structures from a modern evolutionary perspective.
0815: Human behavioral ecology is the study of behavioral adaptations (foraging, reproduction, ontogeny) from the evolutionary and ecologic perspectives (see behavioral ecology).
0816: Paleoanthropology is the study of fossil evidence for human evolution, mainly using remains from extinct hominin and other primate species to determine the morphological and behavioral changes in the human lineage, as well as the environment in which human evolution occurred.
0817: He was a Past Potentate of Al-Malaikah Shrine in Los Angeles, and was eventually selected as Imperial Potentate of the Shriners of North America for the year 1949–50.
0818: Lloyd was invested with the Rank and Decoration of Knight Commander Court of Honour in 1955 and coroneted an Inspector General Honorary, 33°, in 1965.
0819: It said, as first step, Lloyd will write the story of his life for Simon and Schuster.
0820: He became known for his nude photographs of models, such as Bettie Page and stripper Dixie Evans, for a number of men's magazines.
0821: We never intended them to be played with pianos."
0822: They've come close to it, but they haven't come all the way up".
0823: These informants are typically asked to identify other informants who represent the community, often using snowball or chain sampling.
0824: 2010) examine the ontological and epistemological presuppositions underlying ethnography.
0825: Critical theory researchers address "issues of power within the researcher-researched relationships and the links between knowledge and power."
0826: An image can be contained within the physical world through a particular individual's perspective, primarily based on that individual's past experiences.
0827: The idea of an image relies on the imagination and has been seen to be utilized by children in a very spontaneous and natural manner.
0828: Cultural and social anthropologists today place a high value on doing ethnographic research.
0829: The first two are all prokaryotic microorganisms, or mostly single-celled organisms whose cells have a distorted or non-membrane bound nucleus.
0830: Halophiles, organisms that thrive in highly salty environments, and hyperthermophiles, organisms that thrive in extremely hot environments, are examples of Archaea.
0831: Cyanobacteria and mycoplasmas are two examples of bacteria.
0832: Evolution is change in the heritable characteristics of biological populations over successive generations.
0833: Evolution occurs when evolutionary processes such as natural selection (including sexual selection) and genetic drift act on this variation, resulting in certain characteristics becoming more common or rare within a population.
0834: The scientific theory of evolution by natural selection was conceived independently by Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in the mid-19th century and was set out in detail in Darwin's book On the Origin of Species.
0835: How did the first galaxies form?
0836: Astrobiology, formerly known as exobiology, is an interdisciplinary scientific field that studies the origins, early evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe.
0837: The origin and early evolution of life is an inseparable part of the discipline of astrobiology.
0838: Biochemistry may have begun shortly after the Big Bang, 13.8 billion years ago, during a habitable epoch when the Universe was only 10–17 million years old.
0839: Nonetheless, Earth is the only place in the universe humans know to harbor life.
0840: The term exobiology was coined by molecular biologist and Nobel Prize winner Joshua Lederberg.
0841: The definitions focus on the process more than the product, which means there could be GMOS and non-GMOs with very similar genotypes and phenotypes.
0842: It also poses problems as new processes are developed.
0843: Genetic engineers must isolate the gene they wish to insert into the host organism.
0844: The gene is then combined with other genetic elements, including a promoter and terminator region and a selectable marker.
0845: DNA is generally inserted into animal cells using microinjection, where it can be injected through the cell's nuclear envelope directly into the nucleus, or through the use of viral vectors.
0846: In plants this is accomplished through tissue culture.
0847: British universities of this period adopted some approaches familiar to the Italian and German universities, but as they already enjoyed substantial freedoms and autonomy the changes there had begun with the Age of Enlightenment, the same influences that inspired Humboldt.
0848: Students could conduct research in seminars or laboratories and began to produce doctoral theses with more scientific content.
0849: Mathematicians and applied mathematicians are considered to be two of the STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) careers.
0850: Actuaries also address financial questions, including those involving the level of pension contributions required to produce a certain retirement income and the way in which a company should invest resources to maximize its return on investments in light of potential risk.
0851: The hieroglyphic system for Egyptian numerals, like the later Roman numerals, descended from tally marks used for counting.
0852: Early number systems that included positional notation were not decimal, including the sexagesimal (base 60) system for Babylonian numerals, and the vigesimal (base 20) system that defined Maya numerals.
0853: Fire becomes water and earth and vice versa.
0854: There, Heraclitus claims we can not step into the same river twice, a position summarized with the slogan ta panta rhei (everything flows).
0855: Another key concept of Heraclitus is that opposites somehow mirror each other, a doctrine called unity of opposites.
0856: Heraclitus' doctrine on the unity of opposites suggests that unity of the world and its various parts is kept through the tension produced by the opposites.
0857: A fundamental idea in Heraclitus is logos, an ancient Greek word with a variety of meanings; Heraclitus might have used a different meaning of the word with each usage in his book.
0858: Some decades later he had to flee Croton and relocate to Metapontum.
0859: The name is even relatively new, having been 'physical anthropology' for over a century, with some practitioners still applying that term.
0860: Some editors, see below, have rooted the field even deeper than formal science.
0861: This became the main system through which scholars thought about nature for the next roughly 2,000 years.
0862: He also wrote about physiognomy, an idea derived from writings in the Hippocratic Corpus.
0863: In the 19th century, French physical anthropologists, led by Paul Broca (1824-1880), focused on craniometry while the German tradition, led by Rudolf Virchow (1821–1902), emphasized the influence of environment and disease upon the human body.
0864: He changed the focus from racial typology to concentrate upon the study of human evolution, moving away from classification towards evolutionary process.
0865: In the early 1960s, Lloyd produced two compilation films, featuring scenes from his old comedies, Harold Lloyd's World of Comedy and The Funny Side of Life.
0866: Time-Life released several of the feature films more or less intact, also using some of Scharf's scores which had been commissioned by Lloyd.
0867: The Brownlow and Gill documentary was shown as part of the PBS series American Masters, and created a renewed interest in Lloyd's work in the United States, but the films were largely unavailable.
0868: They also adopted Gloria Freeman (1924–1986) in September 1930, whom they renamed Marjorie Elizabeth Lloyd but was known as "Peggy" for most of her life.
0869: Davis died from a heart attack in 1969, two years before Lloyd's death.
0870: In 1925, at the height of his movie career, Lloyd entered into Freemasonry at the Alexander Hamilton Lodge No.
0871: Ethnographies are also sometimes called "case studies."
0872: The fieldwork usually involves spending a year or more in another society, living with the local people and learning about their ways of life.
0873: Benedict's experiences with the Southwest Zuni pueblo is to be considered the basis of her formative fieldwork.
0874: A typical ethnography attempts to be holistic and typically follows an outline to include a brief history of the culture in question, an analysis of the physical geography or terrain inhabited by the people under study, including climate, and often including what biological anthropologists call habitat.
0875: Kinship and social structure (including age grading, peer groups, gender, voluntary associations, clans, moieties, and so forth, if they exist) are typically included.
0876: Rites, rituals, and other evidence of religion have long been an interest and are sometimes central to ethnographies, especially when conducted in public where visiting anthropologists can see them.
0877: Thus, in successive generations members of a population are more likely to be replaced by the progenies of parents with favourable characteristics that have enabled them to survive and reproduce in their respective environments.
0878: The fossil record includes a progression from early biogenic graphite, to microbial mat fossils, to fossilised multicellular organisms.
0879: It sought explanations of natural phenomena in terms of physical laws that were the same for all visible things and that did not require the existence of any fixed natural categories or divine cosmic order.
0880: The biological classification introduced by Carl Linnaeus in 1735 explicitly recognised the hierarchical nature of species relationships, but still viewed species as fixed according to a divine plan.
0881: These ideas were condemned by established naturalists as speculation lacking empirical support.
0882: Partly influenced by An Essay on the Principle of Population (1798) by Thomas Robert Malthus, Darwin noted that population growth would lead to a "struggle for existence" in which favourable variations prevailed as others perished.
0883: The term xenobiology is now used in a more specialized sense, to mean "biology based on foreign chemistry", whether of extraterrestrial or terrestrial (possibly synthetic) origin.
0884: Though once considered outside the mainstream of scientific inquiry, astrobiology has become a formalized field of study.
0885: In 1959, NASA funded its first exobiology project, and in 1960, NASA founded an Exobiology Program, which is now one of four main elements of NASA's current Astrobiology Program.
0886: Advancements in the fields of astrobiology, observational astronomy and discovery of large varieties of extremophiles with extraordinary capability to thrive in the harshest environments on Earth, have led to speculation that life may possibly be thriving on many of the extraterrestrial bodies in the universe.
0887: Missions specifically designed to search for current life on Mars were the Viking program and Beagle 2 probes.
0888: In late 2008, the Phoenix lander probed the environment for past and present planetary habitability of microbial life on Mars, and researched the history of water there.
0889: Traditionally the new genetic material was inserted randomly within the host genome.
0890: There are four families of engineered nucleases: meganucleases, zinc finger nucleases, transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs), and the Cas9-guideRNA system (adapted from CRISPR).
0891: In 1972 Paul Berg created the first recombinant DNA molecule when he combined DNA from a monkey virus with that of the lambda virus.
0892: The bacteria that had successfully incorporated the plasmid was then able to survive in the presence of kanamycin.
0893: In 1974 Rudolf Jaenisch created a transgenic mouse by introducing foreign DNA into its embryo, making it the world's first transgenic animal.
0894: Mice with genes removed (termed a knockout mouse) were created in 1989.
0895: Prior to the works of Euclid around 300 BC, Greek studies in mathematics overlapped with philosophical and mystical beliefs.
0896: The ancient Greeks lacked a symbol for zero until the Hellenistic period, and they used three separate sets of symbols as digits: one set for the units place, one for the tens place, and one for the hundreds.
0897: Their long division algorithm was the same, and the digit-by-digit square root algorithm, popularly used as recently as the 20th century, was known to Archimedes (who may have invented it).
0898: The ancient Chinese had advanced arithmetic studies dating from the Shang Dynasty and continuing through the Tang Dynasty, from basic numbers to advanced algebra.
0899: For the hundreds place, they then reused the symbols for the units place, and so on.
0900: The ancient Chinese were the first to meaningfully discover, understand, and apply negative numbers.
0901: They advanced his ideas, reaching the claim that everything consists of numbers, the universe is made by numbers and everything is a reflection of analogies and geometrical relations.
0902: Their way of life was ascetic, restraining themselves from various pleasures and food.
0903: Other pre-Socratic philosophers mocked Pythagoras for his belief in reincarnation.
0904: Pythagoreanism influenced later Christian currents as Neoplatonism, and its pedagogical methods were adapted by Plato.
0905: According to Aristotle and Diogenes Laertius, Xenophanes was Parmenides' teacher, and it is debated whether Xenophanes should also be considered an Eleatic.
0906: He was the first to deduce that the earth is spherical.
0907: A race is a grouping of humans based on shared physical or social qualities into categories generally viewed as distinct by society.
0908: Modern science regards race as a social construct, an identity which is assigned based on rules made by society.
0909: Still others argue that, among humans, race has no taxonomic significance because all living humans belong to the same subspecies, Homo sapiens sapiens.
0910: In South Africa, the Population Registration Act, 1950 recognized only White, Black, and Coloured, with Indians added later.
0911: The United States Census Bureau proposed but then withdrew plans to add a new category to classify Middle Eastern and North African peoples in the U.S. Census 2020, over a dispute over whether this classification should be considered a white ethnicity or a separate race.
0912: The establishment of racial boundaries often involves the subjugation of groups defined as racially inferior, as in the one-drop rule used in the 19th-century United States to exclude those with any amount of African ancestry from the dominant racial grouping, defined as "white".
0913: In 1926, he became a 32° Scottish Rite Mason in the Valley of Los Angeles, California.
0914: A portion of Lloyd's personal inventory of his silent films (then estimated to be worth $2 million) was destroyed in August 1943 when his film vault caught fire.
0915: The fire spared the main house and outbuildings.
0916: Lloyd was honored in 1960 for his contribution to motion pictures with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame located at 1503 Vine Street.
0917: The second citation was a snub to Chaplin, who at that point had fallen foul of McCarthyism and had his entry visa to the United States revoked.
0918: Gladys Marie Smith (April 8, 1892 – May 29, 1979), known professionally as Mary Pickford, was a Canadian-American film actress and producer with a career that spanned five decades.
0919: For example, if within a group of people, winking was a communicative gesture, he sought to first determine what kinds of things a wink might mean (it might mean several things).
0920: Geertz, while still following something of a traditional ethnographic outline, moved outside that outline to talk about "webs" instead of "outlines" of culture.
0921: Writing Culture helped bring changes to both anthropology and ethnography often described in terms of being 'postmodern,' 'reflexive,' 'literary,' 'deconstructive,' or 'poststructural' in nature, in that the text helped to highlight the various epistemic and political predicaments that many practitioners saw as plaguing ethnographic representations and practices.
0922: In regards to this last point, Writing Culture became a focal point for looking at how ethnographers could describe different cultures and societies without denying the subjectivity of those individuals and groups being studied while simultaneously doing so without laying claim to absolute knowledge and objective authority.
0923: As the purpose of ethnography is to describe and interpret the shared and learned patterns of values, behaviors, beliefs, and language of a culture-sharing group, Harris, (1968), also Agar (1980) note that ethnography is both a process and an outcome of the research.
0924: Sociologist Sam Ladner argues in her book, that understanding consumers and their desires requires a shift in "standpoint," one that only ethnography provides.
0925: Darwin developed his theory of "natural selection" from 1838 onwards and was writing up his "big book" on the subject when Alfred Russel Wallace sent him a version of virtually the same theory in 1858.
0926: Towards this end, Darwin developed his provisional theory of pangenesis.
0927: To explain how new variants originate, de Vries developed a mutation theory that led to a temporary rift between those who accepted Darwinian evolution and biometricians who allied with de Vries.
0928: The publication of the structure of DNA by James Watson and Francis Crick with contribution of Rosalind Franklin in 1953 demonstrated a physical mechanism for inheritance.
0929: In 1973, evolutionary biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky penned that "nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution," because it has brought to light the relations of what first seemed disjointed facts in natural history into a coherent explanatory body of knowledge that describes and predicts many observable facts about life on this planet.
0930: The complete set of observable traits that make up the structure and behaviour of an organism is called its phenotype.
0931: In November 2011, NASA launched the Mars Science Laboratory mission carrying the Curiosity rover, which landed on Mars at Gale Crater in August 2012.
0932: One is the informed assumption that the vast majority of life forms in our galaxy are based on carbon chemistries, as are all life forms on Earth.
0933: The fact that carbon atoms bond readily to other carbon atoms allows for the building of extremely long and complex molecules.
0934: A third assumption is to focus on planets orbiting Sun-like stars for increased probabilities of planetary habitability.
0935: To that end, a number of instruments designed to detect Earth-sized exoplanets have been considered, most notably NASA's Terrestrial Planet Finder (TPF) and ESA's Darwin programs, both of which have been cancelled.
0936: Drake originally formulated the equation merely as an agenda for discussion at the Green Bank conference, but some applications of the formula had been taken literally and related to simplistic or pseudoscientific arguments.
0937: In 1983 the first genetically engineered plant was developed by Michael W. Bevan, Richard B. Flavell and Mary-Dell Chilton.
0938: In 2000, Vitamin A-enriched golden rice was the first plant developed with increased nutrient value.
0939: The insulin produced by bacteria, branded humulin, was approved for release by the Food and Drug Administration in 1982.
0940: In 1994 Calgene attained approval to commercially release the Flavr Savr tomato, the first genetically modified food.
0941: In 2010, scientists at the J. Craig Venter Institute announced that they had created the first synthetic bacterial genome.
0942: It was released to the US market in 2003.
0943: His contemporary, the Syriac bishop Severus Sebokht (650 AD) said, "Indians possess a method of calculation that no word can praise enough.
0944: The Arabs also learned this new method and called it hesab.
0945: The flourishing of algebra in the medieval Islamic world, and also in Renaissance Europe, was an outgrowth of the enormous simplification of computation through decimal notation.
0946: Arithmetic expressions must be evaluated according to the intended sequence of operations.
0947: For example, digital computers can reuse existing adding-circuitry and save additional circuits for implementing a subtraction, by employing the method of two's complement for representing the additive inverses, which is extremely easy to implement in hardware (negation).
0948: Multiplication also combines two numbers into a single number, the product.
0949: Parmenides wrote a hard to interpret poem, named On Nature or On What-is, that substantially influenced later Greek philosophy.
0950: The poem consists of three parts, the proem (i.e., preface), the Way of Truth and the Way of Opinion.
0951: The Way of Truth was then, and is still today, considered of much more importance.
0952: Hence, all the things that we think to be true, even ourselves, are false representations.
0953: The goddess teaches Kouros to use his reasoning to understand whether various claims are true or false, discarding senses as fallacious.
0954: Zeno and Melissus continued Parmenides' thought on cosmology.
0955: According to geneticist David Reich, "while race may be a social construct, differences in genetic ancestry that happen to correlate to many of today's racial constructs are real."
0956: Other dimensions of racial groupings include shared history, traditions, and language.
0957: Socioeconomic factors, in combination with early but enduring views of race, have led to considerable suffering within disadvantaged racial groups.
0958: Racism has led to many instances of tragedy, including slavery and genocide.
0959: Because in some societies racial groupings correspond closely with patterns of social stratification, for social scientists studying social inequality, race can be a significant variable.
0960: For example, in 2008, John Hartigan, Jr. argued for a view of race that focused primarily on culture, but which does not ignore the potential relevance of biology or genetics.
0961: Her father, John Charles Smith was the son of English Methodist immigrants, and worked a variety of odd jobs.
0962: To please her husband's relatives, Pickford's mother baptized her children as Methodists, the religion of their father.
0963: Gladys, her mother and two younger siblings toured the United States by rail, performing in third-rate companies and plays.
0964: Gladys finally landed a supporting role in a 1907 Broadway play, The Warrens of Virginia.
0965: After completing the Broadway run and touring the play, however, Pickford was again out of work.
0966: She quickly grasped that movie acting was simpler than the stylized stage acting of the day.
0967: By assessing user experience in a "natural" setting, ethnology yields insights into the practical applications of a product or service.
0968: The Ethnographic Praxis in Industry (EPIC) conference is evidence of this.
0969: Jaber F. Gubrium and James A. Holstein's (1997) monograph, The New Language of Qualitative Method, discusses forms of ethnography in terms of their "methods talk."
0970: Essentially, Fine maintains that researchers are typically not as ethical as they claim or assume to be — and that "each job includes ways of doing things that would be inappropriate for others to know".
0971: He maintains that "illusions" are essential to maintain an occupational reputation and avoid potentially more caustic consequences.
0972: The code of ethics notes that anthropologists are part of a wider scholarly and political network, as well as human and natural environment, which needs to be reported on respectfully.
0973: For example, suntanned skin comes from the interaction between a person's genotype and sunlight; thus, suntans are not passed on to people's children.
0974: DNA is a long biopolymer composed of four types of bases.
0975: Portions of a DNA molecule that specify a single functional unit are called genes; different genes have different sequences of bases.
0976: If the DNA sequence at a locus varies between individuals, the different forms of this sequence are called alleles.
0977: However, while this simple correspondence between an allele and a trait works in some cases, most traits are more complex and are controlled by quantitative trait loci (multiple interacting genes).
0978: DNA methylation marking chromatin, self-sustaining metabolic loops, gene silencing by RNA interference and the three-dimensional conformation of proteins (such as prions) are areas where epigenetic inheritance systems have been discovered at the organismic level.
0979: The discovery of extremophiles, organisms able to survive in extreme environments, became a core research element for astrobiologists, as they are important to understand four areas in the limits of life in planetary context: the potential for panspermia, forward contamination due to human exploration ventures, planetary colonization by humans, and the exploration of extinct and extant extraterrestrial life.
0980: Even life in the ocean depths, where sunlight cannot reach, was thought to obtain its nourishment either from consuming organic detritus rained down from the surface waters or from eating animals that did.
0981: This chemosynthesis revolutionized the study of biology and astrobiology by revealing that life need not be sun-dependent; it only requires water and an energy gradient in order to exist.
0982: Ten hardy organisms selected for the LIFE project, by Amir Alexander Deinococcus radiodurans, Bacillus subtilis, yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, seeds from Arabidopsis thaliana ('mouse-ear cress'), as well as the invertebrate animal Tardigrade.
0983: Jupiter's moon, Europa, and Saturn's moon, Enceladus, are now considered the most likely locations for extant extraterrestrial life in the Solar System due to their subsurface water oceans where radiogenic and tidal heating enables liquid water to exist.
0984: The cosmic dust permeating the universe contains complex organic compounds ("amorphous organic solids with a mixed aromatic-aliphatic structure") that could be created naturally, and rapidly, by stars.
0985: Genes and other genetic information from a wide range of organisms can be added to a plasmid and inserted into bacteria for storage and modification.
0986: A large number of custom plasmids make manipulating DNA extracted from bacteria relatively easy.
0987: Scientists can easily manipulate and combine genes within the bacteria to create novel or disrupted proteins and observe the effect this has on various molecular systems.
0988: Bacteria have been used in the production of food for a long time, and specific strains have been developed and selected for that work on an industrial scale.
0989: Most food-producing bacteria are lactic acid bacteria, and this is where the majority of research into genetically engineering food-producing bacteria has gone.
0990: The majority are produced in the US and even though regulations are in place to allow production in Europe, as of 2015 no food products derived from bacteria are currently available there.
0991: If the numbers are imagined as lying in a line, multiplication by a number greater than 1, say x, is the same as stretching everything away from 0 uniformly, in such a way that the number 1 itself is stretched to where x was.
0992: Any dividend divided by zero is undefined.
0993: The fundamental theorem of arithmetic was first proven by Carl Friedrich Gauss.
0994: Positional notation (also known as "place-value notation") refers to the representation or encoding of numbers using the same symbol for the different orders of magnitude (e.g., the "ones place", "tens place", "hundreds place") and, with a radix point, using those same symbols to represent fractions (e.g., the "tenths place", "hundredths place").
0995: The use of 0 as a placeholder and, therefore, the use of a positional notation is first attested to in the Jain text from India entitled the Lokavibhâga, dated 458 AD and it was only in the early 13th century that these concepts, transmitted via the scholarship of the Arabic world, were introduced into Europe by Fibonacci using the Hindu–Arabic numeral system.
0996: The result is calculated by the repeated addition of single digits from each number that occupies the same position, proceeding from right to left.
0997: He tried to explain why we think various non-existent objects exist.
0998: Anaxagoras was born in Ionia, but was the first major philosopher to emigrate to Athens.
0999: Anaxagoras was also a major influence on Socrates.
1000: Interpretations differ as to what he meant.
1001: All objects were mixtures of various elements, such as air, water, and others.
1002: Nous was also considered a building block of the cosmos, but it exists only in living objects.
1003: In this way the idea of race as we understand it today came about during the historical process of exploration and conquest which brought Europeans into contact with groups from different continents, and of the ideology of classification and typology found in the natural sciences.
1004: A set of folk beliefs took hold that linked inherited physical differences between groups to inherited intellectual, behavioral, and moral qualities.
1005: The 1735 classification of Carl Linnaeus, inventor of zoological taxonomy, divided the human species Homo sapiens into continental varieties of europaeus, asiaticus, americanus, and afer, each associated with a different humour: sanguine, melancholic, choleric, and phlegmatic, respectively.
1006: Blumenbach also noted the graded transition in appearances from one group to adjacent groups and suggested that "one variety of mankind does so sensibly pass into the other, that you cannot mark out the limits between them".
1007: It was further argued that some groups may be the result of mixture between formerly distinct populations, but that careful study could distinguish the ancestral races that had combined to produce admixed groups.
1008: New studies of culture and the fledgling field of population genetics undermined the scientific standing of racial essentialism, leading race anthropologists to revise their conclusions about the sources of phenotypic variation.
1009: As Pickford said of her success at Biograph:I played scrubwomen and secretaries and women of all nationalities ... I decided that if I could get into as many pictures as possible, I'd become known, and there would be a demand for my work.
1010: In January 1910, Pickford traveled with a Biograph crew to Los Angeles.
1011: Actors were not listed in the credits in Griffith's company.
1012: Pickford left Biograph in December 1910.
1013: She returned to Broadway in the David Belasco production of A Good Little Devil (1912).
1014: In 1913, she decided to work exclusively in film.
1015: Researchers take near-fictions and turn them into claims of fact.
1016: In reality, an ethnographer will always miss some aspect because of lacking omniscience.
1017: Indigenous peoples, also referred to as first people, aboriginal people, native people, or autochthonous people, are culturally distinct ethnic groups who are native to a place which has been colonised and settled by another ethnic group.
1018: Peoples are usually described as "indigenous" when they maintain traditions or other aspects of an early culture that is associated with a given region.
1019: Indigenous peoples continue to face threats to their sovereignty, economic well-being, languages, ways of knowing, and access to the resources on which their cultures depend.
1020: Estimates of the total global population of Indigenous peoples usually range from 250 million to 600 million.
1021: For example, ecological inheritance through the process of niche construction is defined by the regular and repeated activities of organisms in their environment.
1022: Despite the constant introduction of new variation through mutation and gene flow, most of the genome of a species is identical in all individuals of that species.
1023: A substantial part of the phenotypic variation in a population is caused by genotypic variation.
1024: Variation disappears when a new allele reaches the point of fixation—when it either disappears from the population or replaces the ancestral allele entirely.
1025: When mutations occur, they may alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning, or have no effect.
1026: Extra copies of genes are a major source of the raw material needed for new genes to evolve.
1027: PAHs seem to have been formed shortly after the Big Bang, are widespread throughout the universe, and are associated with new stars and exoplanets.
1028: Experimental astroecology investigates resources in planetary soils, using actual space materials in meteorites.
1029: On the largest scale, cosmoecology concerns life in the universe over cosmological times.
1030: Specializations include cosmochemistry, biochemistry and organic geochemistry.
1031: Some regions on Earth, such as the Pilbara in Western Australia and the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antarctica, are also considered to be geological analogs to regions of Mars, and as such, might be able to provide clues on how to search for past life on Mars.
1032: Indeed, it seems likely that the basic building blocks of life anywhere will be similar to those on Earth, in the generality if not in the detail.
1033: The bacteria are then harvested and the desired protein purified from them.
1034: Many of these proteins are impossible or difficult to obtain via natural methods and they are less likely to be contaminated with pathogens, making them safer.
1035: Outside of medicine they have been used to produce biofuels.
1036: Ideas include altering gut bacteria so they destroy harmful bacteria, or using bacteria to replace or increase deficient enzymes or proteins.
1037: Enabling the bacteria to form a colony could provide a more long-term solution, but could also raise safety concerns as interactions between bacteria and the human body are less well understood than with traditional drugs.
1038: For over a century bacteria have been used in agriculture.
1039: The rightmost digit is the value for the current position, and the result for the subsequent addition of the digits to the left increases by the value of the second (leftmost) digit, which is always one (if not zero).
1040: A multiplication table with ten rows and ten columns lists the results for each pair of digits.
1041: Similar techniques exist for subtraction and division.
1042: In mathematical terminology, this characteristic is defined as closure, and the previous list is described as .
1043: The total in the pence column is 25.
1044: This operation is repeated using the values in the shillings column, with the additional step of adding the value that was carried forward from the pennies column.
1045: Anaxagoras advanced Milesian thought on epistemology, striving to establish an explanation that could be valid for all natural phenomena.
1046: According to Diogenes Laertius, Empedocles wrote two books in the form of poems: Peri Physeos (On nature) and the Katharmoi (Purifications).
1047: He also continues Anaxagoras' thought on the four "roots" (i.e., classical elements), that by intermixing, they create all things around us.
1048: These two forces are opposite and by acting upon the material of the four roots unite in harmony or tear apart the four roots, with the resulting mixture being all things that exist.
1049: They are most famous for their atomic cosmology even though their thought included many other fields of philosophy, such as ethics, mathematics, aesthetics, politics, and even embryology.
1050: Democritus and Leucippus were skeptics regarding the reliability of our senses, but they were confident that motion exists.
1051: Studies of human genetic variation show that human populations are not geographically isolated, and their genetic differences are far smaller than those among comparable subspecies.
1052: Andreasen cited tree diagrams of relative genetic distances among populations published by Luigi Cavalli-Sforza as the basis for a phylogenetic tree of human races (p. 661).
1053: Marks, Templeton, and Cavalli-Sforza all conclude that genetics does not provide evidence of human races.
1054: For example, with respect to skin color in Europe and Africa, Brace writes:To this day, skin color grades by imperceptible means from Europe southward around the eastern end of the Mediterranean and up the Nile into Africa.
1055: He further argued that one could use the term race if one distinguished between "race differences" and "the race concept".
1056: In short, Livingstone and Dobzhansky agree that there are genetic differences among human beings; they also agree that the use of the race concept to classify people, and how the race concept is used, is a matter of social convention.
1057: Pickford left the stage to join Zukor's roster of stars.
1058: Comedy-dramas, such as In the Bishop's Carriage (1913), Caprice (1913), and especially Hearts Adrift (1914), made her irresistible to moviegoers.
1059: Tess of the Storm Country was released five weeks later.
1060: Only Charlie Chaplin, who slightly surpassed Pickford's popularity in 1916, had a similarly spellbinding pull with critics and the audience.
1061: She also became vice-president of Pickford Film Corporation.
1062: Due to her lack of a normal childhood, she enjoyed making these pictures.
1063: As a reference to a group of people, the term Indigenous first came into use by Europeans who used it to differentiate the Indigenous peoples of the Americas from enslaved Africans.
1064: In the 1970s, the term was used as a way of linking the experiences, issues, and struggles of groups of colonized people across international borders.
1065: This situation can persist even in the case where the Indigenous population outnumbers that of the other inhabitants of the region or state; the defining notion here is one of separation from decision and regulatory processes that have some, at least titular, influence over aspects of their community and land rights.
1066: A 2009 United Nations report published by the Secretariat of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues stated: For centuries, since the time of their colonization, conquest or occupation, Indigenous peoples have documented histories of resistance, interface or cooperation with states, thus demonstrating their conviction and determination to survive with their distinct sovereign identities.
1067: These people were seen by ancient writers either as the ancestors of the Greeks, or as an earlier group of people who inhabited Greece before the Greeks.
1068: The Crusades (1096-1271) were based on this ambition of a holy war against who the church saw as infidels.
1069: New genes can be generated from an ancestral gene when a duplicate copy mutates and acquires a new function.
1070: The generation of new genes can also involve small parts of several genes being duplicated, with these fragments then recombining to form new combinations with new functions.
1071: Recombination and reassortment do not alter allele frequencies, but instead change which alleles are associated with each other, producing offspring with new combinations of alleles.
1072: The first cost is that in sexually dimorphic species only one of the two sexes can bear young.
1073: Yet sexual reproduction is the more common means of reproduction among eukaryotes and multicellular organisms.
1074: Gene transfer between species includes the formation of hybrid organisms and horizontal gene transfer.
1075: Only two of the natural atoms, carbon and silicon, are known to serve as the backbones of molecules sufficiently large to carry biological information.
1076: The four most likely candidates for life in the Solar System are the planet Mars, the Jovian moon Europa, and Saturn's moons Titan and Enceladus.
1077: At the Martian low temperatures and low pressure, liquid water is likely to be highly saline.
1078: On 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of "clay-like minerals" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa.
1079: Some scientists think it possible that these liquid hydrocarbons might take the place of water in living cells different from those on Earth.
1080: There are no known abiotic processes on the planet that could cause its presence.
1081: With advances in genetic engineering, these bacteria have been manipulated for increased efficiency and expanded host range.
1082: Pseudomonas strains of bacteria cause frost damage by nucleating water into ice crystals around themselves.
1083: Other uses for genetically modified bacteria include bioremediation, where the bacteria are used to convert pollutants into a less toxic form.
1084: In the 1980s artist Jon Davis and geneticist Dana Boyd converted the Germanic symbol for femininity (ᛉ) into binary code and then into a DNA sequence, which was then expressed in Escherichia coli.
1085: Researchers can use this to control for various factors; including the target location, insert size, and duration of gene expression.
1086: Although primarily still at trial stages, there has been some successes using gene therapy to replace defective genes.
1087: One typical booklet that ran to 150 pages tabulated multiples "from one to ten thousand at the various prices from one farthing to one pound".
1088: This study is sometimes known as algorism.
1089: Also, arithmetic was used by Islamic Scholars in order to teach application of the rulings related to Zakat and Irth.
1090: Addition (usually signified by the plus symbol ) is one of the four basic operations of arithmetic, the other three being subtraction, multiplication and division.
1091: In algebra, another area of mathematics, addition can also be performed on abstract objects such as vectors, matrices, subspaces and subgroups.
1092: Using the gerundive suffix -nd results in "addend", "thing to be added".
1093: Atoms move within the void, interact with each other, and form the plurality of the world we live in, in a purely mechanical manner.
1094: Democritus concluded that since everything is atoms and void, several of our senses are not real but conventional.
1095: They attacked traditional thinking, from gods to morality, paving the way for further advances of philosophy and other disciplines such as drama, social sciences, mathematics, and history.
1096: The sophists taught rhetoric and how to address issues from multiple viewpoints.
1097: Gorgias wrote a book named On Nature, in which he attacked the Eleatics' concepts of What-is and What-is-not.
1098: Antiphon placed natural law against the law of the city.
1099: As the anthropologists Leonard Lieberman and Fatimah Linda Jackson observed, "Discordant patterns of heterogeneity falsify any description of a population as if it were genotypically or even phenotypically homogeneous".
1100: The mid-20th-century anthropologist William C. Boyd defined race as: "A population which differs significantly from other populations in regard to the frequency of one or more of the genes it possesses.
1101: Moreover, the anthropologist Stephen Molnar has suggested that the discordance of clines inevitably results in a multiplication of races that renders the concept itself useless.
1102: Joanna Mountain and Neil Risch cautioned that while genetic clusters may one day be shown to correspond to phenotypic variations between groups, such assumptions were premature as the relationship between genes and complex traits remains poorly understood.
1103: Any category you come up with is going to be imperfect, but that doesn't preclude you from using it or the fact that it has utility.
1104: This assumed three population groups separated by large geographic ranges (European, African and East Asian).
1105: In August 1918, Pickford's contract expired and, when refusing Zukor's terms for a renewal, she was offered $250,000 to leave the motion picture business.
1106: Through United Artists, Pickford continued to produce and perform in her own movies; she could also distribute them as she chose.
1107: During this period, she also made Little Annie Rooney (1925), another film in which Pickford played a child, Sparrows (1926), which blended the Dickensian with newly minted German expressionist style, and My Best Girl (1927), a romantic comedy featuring her future husband Charles "Buddy" Rogers.
1108: She played a reckless socialite in Coquette (1929), her first talkie, a role for which her famous ringlets were cut into a 1920s' bob.
1109: The public failed to respond to her in the more sophisticated roles.
1110: Established Hollywood actors were panicked by the impending arrival of the talkies.
1111: However, the council upheld that conquests could 'legally' occur if non-Christians refused to comply with Christianization and European natural law.
1112: In the 14th and 15th centuries, the Indigenous peoples of what are now referred to as the Canary Islands, known as Guanches (who had lived on the islands since the BCE era) became the subject of colonizers' attention.
1113: In 1402, the Spanish began efforts to invade and colonize the islands.
1114: The invaders brought destruction and diseases to the Guanche people, whose identity and culture disappeared as a result.
1115: As stated by Robert J. Miller, Jacinta Ruru, Larissa Behrendt, and Tracey Lindberg, the doctrine developed over time "to justify the domination of non-Christian, non-European peoples and the confiscations of their lands and rights."
1116: Spanish King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella hired Christopher Columbus, who was dispatched in 1492, to colonize and bring new lands under the Spanish crown.
1117: Horizontal transfer of genes from bacteria to eukaryotes such as the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the adzuki bean weevil Callosobruchus chinensis has occurred.
1118: Different traits confer different rates of survival and reproduction (differential fitness).
1119: Consequently, organisms with traits that give them an advantage over their competitors are more likely to pass on their traits to the next generation than those with traits that do not confer an advantage.
1120: The central concept of natural selection is the evolutionary fitness of an organism.
1121: For example, if an organism could survive well and reproduce rapidly, but its offspring were all too small and weak to survive, this organism would make little genetic contribution to future generations and would thus have low fitness.
1122: Examples of traits that can increase fitness are enhanced survival and increased fecundity.
1123: Yamato 000593, the second largest meteorite from Mars, was found on Earth in 2000.
1124: On 5 March 2011, Richard B. Hoover, a scientist with the Marshall Space Flight Center, speculated on the finding of alleged microfossils similar to cyanobacteria in CI1 carbonaceous meteorites in the fringe Journal of Cosmology, a story widely reported on by mainstream media.
1125: Evidence of perchlorates have been found throughout the solar system, and specifically on Mars.
1126: Improved detection methods and increased observation time will undoubtedly discover more planetary systems, and possibly some more like ours.
1127: The aim is to detect those organisms that are able to survive space travel conditions and to maintain the proliferating capacity.
1128: These stress responses could also allow them to survive in harsh space conditions, although evolution also puts some restrictions on their use as analogues to extraterrestrial life.
1129: As of 2018, there are a substantial number of clinical trials underway, including treatments for hemophilia, glioblastoma, chronic granulomatous disease, cystic fibrosis and various cancers.
1130: Herpes simplex viruses make promising vectors, having a carrying capacity of over 30kb and providing long term expression, although they are less efficient at gene delivery than other vectors.
1131: Other viruses that have been used as vectors include alphaviruses, flaviviruses, measles viruses, rhabdoviruses, Newcastle disease virus, poxviruses, and picornaviruses.
1132: This does not affect the viruses infectivity, invokes a natural immune response and there is no chance that they will regain their virulence function, which can occur with some other vaccines.
1133: The most effective vaccine against Tuberculosis, the Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) vaccine, only provides partial protection.
1134: Other vector-based vaccines have already been approved and many more are being developed.
1135: "Sum" and "summand" derive from the Latin noun summa "the highest, the top" and associated verb summare.
1136: The later Middle English terms "adden" and "adding" were popularized by Chaucer.
1137: As an example, should the expression a + b + c be defined to mean (a + b) + c or a + (b + c)?
1138: Even some nonhuman animals show a limited ability to add, particularly primates.
1139: With additional experience, children learn to add more quickly by exploiting the commutativity of addition by counting up from the larger number, in this case, starting with three and counting "four, five."
1140: Zero: Since zero is the additive identity, adding zero is trivial.
1141: He attempted to explain both the variety and unity of the cosmos.
1142: Diogenes of Apollonia returned to Milesian monism, but with a rather more elegant thought.
1143: While Pythagoras and Empedocles linked their self-proclaimed wisdom to their divinely inspired status, they tried to teach or urge mortals to seek the truth about the natural realm—Pythagoras by means of mathematics and geometry and Empedocles by exposure to experiences.
1144: They attacked the traditional representations of gods that Homer and Hesiod had established and put Greek popular religion under scrutiny, initiating the schism between natural philosophy and theology.
1145: The theological thought starts with the Milesian philosophers.
1146: Xenophanes set three preconditions for God: he had to be all good, immortal and not resembling humans in appearance, which had a major impact on western religious thought.
1147: Anthropologists such as C. Loring Brace, the philosophers Jonathan Kaplan and Rasmus Winther, and the geneticist Joseph Graves, have argued that while there it is certainly possible to find biological and genetic variation that corresponds roughly to the groupings normally defined as "continental races", this is true for almost all geographically distinct populations.
1148: Weiss and Fullerton have noted that if one sampled only Icelanders, Mayans and Maoris, three distinct clusters would form and all other populations could be described as being clinally composed of admixtures of Maori, Icelandic and Mayan genetic materials.
1149: Moreover, the genomic data underdetermines whether one wishes to see subdivisions (i.e., splitters) or a continuum (i.e., lumpers).
1150: Alongside empirical and conceptual problems with "race", following the Second World War, evolutionary and social scientists were acutely aware of how beliefs about race had been used to justify discrimination, apartheid, slavery, and genocide.
1151: Craig Venter and Francis Collins of the National Institute of Health jointly made the announcement of the mapping of the human genome in 2000.
1152: It's not a scientific one.
1153: She retired from film acting in 1933 following three costly failures with her last film appearance being Secrets.
1154: During World War I she promoted the sale of Liberty Bonds, making an intensive series of fund-raising speeches, beginning in Washington, D.C., where she sold bonds alongside Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks, Theda Bara, and Marie Dressler.
1155: In a single speech in Chicago, she sold an estimated five million dollars' worth of bonds.
1156: At the end of World War I, Pickford conceived of the Motion Picture Relief Fund, an organization to help financially needy actors.
1157: As a result, in 1940, the Fund was able to purchase land and build the Motion Picture Country House and Hospital, in Woodland Hills, California.
1158: She demanded (and received) these powers in 1916, when she was under contract to Zukor's Famous Players in Famous Plays (later Paramount).
1159: Alexander granted Spain any lands that it discovered as long as they had not been "previously possessed by any Christian owner."
1160: Many conquistadors apparently feared that, if given the option, Indigenous peoples would actually accept Christianity, which would legally not permit invasion of their lands and the theft of their belongings.
1161: Being Catholic countries in 1493, England as well as France worked to 're-interpret' the Doctrine of Discovery to serve their own colonial interests.
1162: Land claims were made through symbolic "rituals of discovery" that were performed to illustrate the colonizing nation's legal claim to the land.
1163: In 1774, Captain James Cook attempted to invalidate Spanish land claims to Tahiti by removing their marks of possession and then proceeding to set up English marks of possession.
1164: This concept formalized the idea that lands which were not being used in a manner that European legal systems approved of were open for European colonization.
1165: However, even if the direction of selection does reverse in this way, traits that were lost in the past may not re-evolve in an identical form (see Dollo's law).
1166: The first is directional selection, which is a shift in the average value of a trait over time—for example, organisms slowly getting taller.
1167: Finally, in stabilising selection there is selection against extreme trait values on both ends, which causes a decrease in variance around the average value and less diversity.
1168: This broad understanding of nature enables scientists to delineate specific forces which, together, comprise natural selection.
1169: However, the rate of recombination is low (approximately two events per chromosome per generation).
1170: A set of alleles that is usually inherited in a group is called a haplotype.
1171: The formation of spores allows for it to survive extreme environments while still being able to restart cellular growth.
1172: The two landers were identical, so the same tests were carried out at two places on Mars' surface; Viking 1 near the equator and Viking 2 further north.
1173: In astronomy, extinction is the absorption and scattering of electromagnetic radiation by dust and gas between an emitting astronomical object and the observer.
1174: For stars that lie near the plane of the Milky Way and are within a few thousand parsecs of the Earth, extinction in the visual band of frequencies (photometric system) is roughly 1.8 magnitudes per kiloparsec.
1175: Reddening occurs due to the light scattering off dust and other matter in the interstellar medium.
1176: In most photometric systems filters (passbands) are used from which readings of magnitude of light may take account of latitude and humidity among terrestrial factors.
1177: In 2004, researchers reported that a genetically modified virus that exploits the selfish behaviour of cancer cells might offer an alternative way of killing tumours.
1178: The virus was injected into orange trees to combat citrus greening disease that had reduced orange production by 70% since 2005.
1179: Genetically modified viruses that make the target animals infertile through immunocontraception have been created in the laboratory as well as others that target the developmental stage of the animal.
1180: Genetic modification of the myxoma virus has been proposed to conserve European wild rabbits in the Iberian peninsula and to help regulate them in Australia.
1181: It is possible to engineer bacteriophages to express modified proteins on their surface and join them up in specific patterns (a technique called phage display).
1182: For industrial applications, yeasts combine the bacterial advantages of being a single-celled organism that is easy to manipulate and grow with the advanced protein modifications found in eukaryotes.
1183: One aligns two decimal fractions above each other, with the decimal point in the same location.
1184: If the addends are the rotation speeds of two shafts, they can be added with a differential.
1185: It made use of a gravity-assisted carry mechanism.
1186: To subtract, the operator had to use the Pascal's calculator's complement, which required as many steps as an addition.
1187: Both XOR and AND gates are straightforward to realize in digital logic allowing the realization of full adder circuits which in turn may be combined into more complex logical operations.
1188: Many implementations are, in fact, hybrids of these last three designs.
1189: Anaxagoras asserted that cosmic intelligence (nous) gives life to things.
1190: It was Hippocrates (often hailed as the father of medicine) who separated – but not completely – the two domains.
1191: Ever-transforming nature is summarized by Heraclitus' axiom panta rhei (everything is in a state of flux).
1192: The pre-Socratics sought to understand the various aspects of nature by means of rationalism, observations, and offering explanations that could be deemed as scientific, giving birth to what became Western rationalism.
1193: Anaximander offered the principle of sufficient reason, a revolutionary argument that would also yield the principle that nothing comes out of nothing.
1194: Xenophanes also advanced a critique of anthropomorphic religion by highlighting in a rational way the inconsistency of depictions of the gods in Greek popular religion.
1195: Anthropologist Stephan Palmié has argued that race "is not a thing but a social relation"; or, in the words of Katya Gibel Mevorach, "a metonym", "a human invention whose criteria for differentiation are neither universal nor fixed but have always been used to manage difference."
1196: There, racial identity was not governed by rigid descent rule, such as the one-drop rule, as it was in the United States.
1197: These types grade into each other like the colors of the spectrum, and not one category stands significantly isolated from the rest.
1198: New Jersey: Prentice Hall Inc, 1984.
1199: In European context, historical resonance of "race" underscores its problematic nature.
1200: The concept of racial origin relies on the notion that human beings can be separated into biologically distinct "races", an idea generally rejected by the scientific community.
1201: The Mary Pickford Corporation was briefly Pickford's motion-picture production company.
1202: Distributors (also part of the studios) arranged for company productions to be shown in the company's movie venues.
1203: It was solely a distribution company, offering independent film producers access to its own screens as well as the rental of temporarily unbooked cinemas owned by other companies.
1204: As a co-founder, as well as the producer and star of her own films, Pickford became the most powerful woman who has ever worked in Hollywood.
1205: She and Chaplin remained partners in the company for decades.
1206: It is rumored she became pregnant by Moore in the early 1910s and had a miscarriage or an abortion.
1207: As the 'rules' of colonization became established into legal doctrine agreed upon by between European colonial powers, methods of laying claims to Indigenous lands continued to expand rapidly.
1208: Precise estimates for the total population of the world's Indigenous peoples are very difficult to compile, given the difficulties in identification and the variances and inadequacies of available census data.
1209: This includes at least 5,000 distinct peoples in over 72 countries.
1210: Some have also been assimilated by other populations or have undergone many other changes.
1211: The highly diverse and numerous ethnic groups that comprise most modern, independent African states contain within them various peoples whose situation, cultures and pastoralist or hunter-gatherer lifestyles are generally marginalized and set apart from the dominant political and economic structures of the nation.
1212: The impacts of historical and ongoing European colonization of the Americas on Indigenous communities have been in general quite severe, with many authorities estimating ranges of significant population decline primarily due to disease, land theft and violence.
1213: This drift halts when an allele eventually becomes fixed, either by disappearing from the population or replacing the other alleles entirely.
1214: The neutral theory of molecular evolution proposed that most evolutionary changes are the result of the fixation of neutral mutations by genetic drift.
1215: However, a more recent and better-supported version of this model is the nearly neutral theory, where a mutation that would be effectively neutral in a small population is not necessarily neutral in a large population.
1216: The number of individuals in a population is not critical, but instead a measure known as the effective population size.
1217: The presence or absence of gene flow fundamentally changes the course of evolution.
1218: This opposing-pressures argument was long used to dismiss the possibility of internal tendencies in evolution, until the molecular era prompted renewed interest in neutral evolution.
1219: Broadly speaking, interstellar extinction is strongest at short wavelengths, generally observed by using techniques from spectroscopy.
1220: The amount of extinction can be significantly higher than this in specific directions.
1221: As a result, when computing cosmic distances it can be advantageous to move to star data from the near-infared (of which the filter or passband Ks is quite standard) where the variations and amount of extinction are significantly less, and similar ratios as to R(Ks): 0.49±0.02 and 0.528±0.015 were found respectively by independent groups.
1222: This feature was first observed in the 1960s, but its origin is still not well understood.
1223: In the SMC, more extreme variation is seen with no 2175 Å and very strong far-UV extinction in the star forming Bar and fairly normal ultraviolet extinction seen in the more quiescent Wing.
1224: Finding extinction curves in both the LMC and SMC which are similar to those found in the Milky Way and finding extinction curves in the Milky Way that look more like those found in the LMC2 supershell of the LMC and in the SMC Bar has given rise to a new interpretation.
1225: One has increased malolactic fermentation efficiency, while the other prevents the production of dangerous ethyl carbamate compounds during fermentation.
1226: Unlike bacteria and viruses they have the advantage of infecting the insects by contact alone, although they are out competed in efficiency by chemical pesticides.
1227: An attractive target for biological control are mosquitos, vectors for a range of deadly diseases, including malaria, yellow fever and dengue fever.
1228: Another strategy is to add proteins to the fungi that block transmission of malaria or remove the Plasmodium altogether.
1229: Many plants are pluripotent, meaning that a single cell from a mature plant can be harvested and under the right conditions can develop into a new plant.
1230: Major advances in tissue culture and plant cellular mechanisms for a wide range of plants has originated from systems developed in tobacco.
1231: Unanticipated arithmetic overflow is a fairly common cause of program errors.
1232: Taken literally, the above definition is an application of the recursion theorem on the partially ordered set N2.
1233: If either a or b is zero, treat it as an identity.
1234: Here, the semigroup is formed by the natural numbers and the group is the additive group of integers.
1235: The commutativity and associativity of real addition are immediate; defining the real number 0 to be the set of negative rationals, it is easily seen to be the additive identity.
1236: One must prove that this operation is well-defined, dealing with co-Cauchy sequences.
1237: Other pre-Socratics also sought to answer the question of arche, offering various answers, but the first step towards scientific thought was already taken.
1238: The philosophic thought produced by the pre-Socratics heavily influenced later philosophers, historians and playwrights.
1239: The naturalists impressed young Socrates and he was interested in the quest for the substance of the cosmos, but his interest waned as he became steadily more focused on epistemology, virtue, and ethics rather than the natural world.
1240: Cicero analyzed his views on the pre-Socratics in his Tusculanae Disputationes, as he distinguished the theoretical nature of pre-Socratic thought from previous "sages" who were interested in more practical issues.
1241: Aristotle discussed the pre-Socratics in the first book of Metaphysics, as an introduction to his own philosophy and the quest for arche.
1242: Francis Bacon, a 16th-century philosopher known for advancing the scientific method, was probably the first philosopher of the modern era to use pre-Socratic axioms extensively in his texts.
1243: In the United States most people who self-identify as African American have some European ancestors, while many people who identify as European American have some African or Amerindian ancestors.
1244: The criteria for membership in these races diverged in the late 19th century.
1245: Amerindians continue to be defined by a certain percentage of "Indian blood" (called blood quantum).
1246: This rule meant that those that were mixed race but with some discernible African ancestry were defined as black.
1247: The term "Hispanic" as an ethnonym emerged in the 20th century with the rise of migration of laborers from the Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America to the United States.
1248: Three factors, country of academic education, discipline, and age, were found to be significant in differentiating the replies.
1249: The couple lived together on-and-off for several years.
1250: Around this time, Pickford also suffered from the flu during the 1918 flu pandemic.
1251: They went to Europe for their honeymoon; fans in London and in Paris caused riots trying to get to the famous couple.
1252: Pickford continued to epitomize the virtuous but fiery girl next door.
1253: Foreign heads of state and dignitaries who visited the White House often asked if they could also visit Pickfair, the couple's mansion in Beverly Hills.
1254: Other guests included George Bernard Shaw, Albert Einstein, Elinor Glyn, Helen Keller, H. G. Wells, Lord Mountbatten, Fritz Kreisler, Amelia Earhart, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Noël Coward, Max Reinhardt, Baron Nishi, Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Austen Chamberlain, Sir Harry Lauder, and Meher Baba, among others.
1255: In the southern states of Oaxaca (65.73%) and Yucatán (65.40%), the majority of the population is Indigenous, as reported in 2015.
1256: The descriptors "Indian" and "Eskimo" have fallen into disuse in Canada.
1257: Most notable was the change of Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada (AANDC) to Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC) in 2015, which then split into Indigenous Services Canada and Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Development Canada in 2017.
1258: First Nations peoples signed 11 numbered treaties across much of what is now known as Canada between 1871 and 1921, except in parts of British Columbia.
1259: The autonomous territory of Greenland within the Kingdom of Denmark is also home to a recognised Indigenous and majority population of Inuit (about 85%) who settled the area in the 13th century, displacing the Indigenous Dorset people and Greenlandic Norse.
1260: In Spanish or Portuguese speaking countries, one finds the use of terms such as índios, pueblos indígenas, amerindios, povos nativos, povos indígenas, and, in Peru, Comunidades Nativas (Native Communities), particularly among Amazonian societies like the Urarina and Matsés.
1261: For instance, mutation biases are frequently invoked in models of codon usage.
1262: Different insertion vs. deletion biases in different taxa can lead to the evolution of different genome sizes.
1263: Contemporary thinking about the role of mutation biases reflects a different theory from that of Haldane and Fisher.
1264: Organisms can also respond to selection by cooperating with each other, usually by aiding their relatives or engaging in mutually beneficial symbiosis.
1265: Macroevolution refers to evolution that occurs at or above the level of species, in particular speciation and extinction; whereas microevolution refers to smaller evolutionary changes within a species or population, in particular shifts in allele frequency and adaptation.
1266: However, in macroevolution, the traits of the entire species may be important.
1267: This extinction has three main components: Rayleigh scattering by air molecules, scattering by particulates, and molecular absorption.
1268: The amount of such extinction is lowest at the observer's zenith and highest near the horizon.
1269: The Drake equation speculates about the existence of sapient life elsewhere in the universe.
1270: This encompasses a search for current and historic extraterrestrial life, and a narrower search for extraterrestrial intelligent life.
1271: Over the years, science fiction communicated scientific ideas, imagined a wide range of possibilities, and influenced public interest in and perspectives of extraterrestrial life.
1272: According to this argument, made by scientists such as Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking, as well as notable personalities such as Winston Churchill, it would be improbable for life not to exist somewhere other than Earth.
1273: Another major model organism relevant to genetic engineering is Arabidopsis thaliana.
1274: In research, plants are engineered to help discover the functions of certain genes.
1275: Unlike mutagenisis, genetic engineering allows targeted removal without disrupting other genes in the organism.
1276: Other strategies include attaching the gene to a strong promoter and see what happens when it is overexpressed, forcing a gene to be expressed in a different location or at different developmental stages.
1277: The first genetically modified ornamentals commercialized altered color.
1278: Other genetically modified ornamentals include Chrysanthemum and Petunia.
1279: The set of integers modulo 2 has just two elements; the addition operation it inherits is known in Boolean logic as the "exclusive or" function.
1280: These give two different generalizations of addition of natural numbers to the transfinite.
1281: There are even more generalizations of multiplication than addition.
1282: In fact, if two nonnegative numbers a and b are of different orders of magnitude, then their sum is approximately equal to their maximum.
1283: It includes the idea of the sum of a single number, which is itself, and the empty sum, which is zero.
1284: Integration is a kind of "summation" over a continuum, or more precisely and generally, over a differentiable manifold.
1285: Friedrich Nietzsche admired the pre-Socratics deeply, calling them "tyrants of the spirit" to mark their antithesis and his preference against Socrates and his successors.
1286: According to his narrative, limned in many of his books, the pre-Socratic era was the glorious era of Greece, while the so-called Golden Age that followed was an age of decay, according to Nietzsche.
1287: Even though this period – known in its earlier part as the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period – in its latter part was fraught with chaos and bloody battles, it is also known as the Golden Age of Chinese philosophy because a broad range of thoughts and ideas were developed and discussed freely.
1288: Taoism (also called Daoism), a philosophy which emphasizes the Three Jewels of the Tao: compassion, moderation, and humility, while Taoist thought generally focuses on nature, the relationship between humanity and the cosmos; health and longevity; and wu wei (action through inaction).
1289: Agrarianism, or the School of Agrarianism, which advocated peasant utopian communalism and egalitarianism.
1290: Scholars from this school were good orators, debaters and tacticians.
1291: In 2007, Ann Morning interviewed over 40 American biologists and anthropologists and found significant disagreements over the nature of race, with no one viewpoint holding a majority among either group.
1292: While he can see good arguments for both sides, the complete denial of the opposing evidence "seems to stem largely from socio-political motivation and not science at all".
1293: In partial response to Gill's statement, Professor of Biological Anthropology C. Loring Brace argues that the reason laymen and biological anthropologists can determine the geographic ancestry of an individual can be explained by the fact that biological characteristics are clinally distributed across the planet, and that does not translate into the concept of race.
1294: Physical anthropology texts argued that biological races exist until the 1970s, when they began to argue that races do not exist.
1295: In February 2001, the editors of Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine asked "authors to not use race and ethnicity when there is no biological, scientific, or sociological reason for doing so."
1296: Morning (2008) looked at high school biology textbooks during the 1952–2002 period and initially found a similar pattern with only 35% directly discussing race in the 1983–92 period from initially 92% doing so.
1297: They were also constantly on display as America's unofficial ambassadors to the world, leading parades, cutting ribbons, and making speeches.
1298: They divorced January 10, 1936.
1299: She criticized their physical imperfections, including Ronnie's small stature and Roxanne's crooked teeth.
1300: Her siblings, Lottie and Jack, both died of alcohol-related causes in 1936 and 1933, respectively.
1301: Pickford withdrew and gradually became a recluse, remaining almost entirely at Pickfair and allowing visits only from Lillian Gish, her stepson Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and few other people.
1302: She appeared in court in 1959, in a matter pertaining to her co-ownership of North Carolina TV station WSJS-TV.
1303: Indigenous peoples are found in the entire territory of Brazil, although the majority of them live in Indian reservations in the North and Center-Western part of the country.
1304: There are currently more Armenians living outside their ancestral homeland because of the Armenian genocide of 1915.
1305: The argument entered the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in the 1990s, with Palestinians claiming Indigenous status as a pre-existing population displaced by Jewish settlement, and currently constituting a minority in the State of Israel.
1306: In Russia, definition of "indigenous peoples" is contested largely referring to a number of population (less than 50 000 people), and neglecting self-identification, origin from indigenous populations who inhabited the country or region upon invasion, colonization or establishment of state frontiers, distinctive social, economic and cultural institutions.
1307: The Tibetans are indigenous to Tibet.
1308: In Hong Kong, the indigenous inhabitants of the New Territories are defined in the Sino-British Joint Declaration as people descended through the male line from a person who was in 1898, before Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory.
1309: A common misconception is that evolution has goals, long-term plans, or an innate tendency for "progress", as expressed in beliefs such as orthogenesis and evolutionism; realistically however, evolution has no long-term goal and does not necessarily produce greater complexity.
1310: Also, the term adaptation may refer to a trait that is important for an organism's survival.
1311: An adaptive trait is an aspect of the developmental pattern of the organism which enables or enhances the probability of that organism surviving and reproducing.
1312: Other striking examples are the bacteria Escherichia coli evolving the ability to use citric acid as a nutrient in a long-term laboratory experiment, Flavobacterium evolving a novel enzyme that allows these bacteria to grow on the by-products of nylon manufacturing, and the soil bacterium Sphingobium evolving an entirely new metabolic pathway that degrades the synthetic pesticide pentachlorophenol.
1313: Consequently, structures with similar internal organisation may have different functions in related organisms.
1314: However, since all living organisms are related to some extent, even organs that appear to have little or no structural similarity, such as arthropod, squid and vertebrate eyes, or the limbs and wings of arthropods and vertebrates, can depend on a common set of homologous genes that control their assembly and function; this is called deep homology.
1315: Life may have emerged independently at many places throughout the universe.
1316: At each level of the organism there will be mechanisms in place to eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation, and keep the organism functioning.
1317: Life based on ammonia (rather than water) has been suggested as an alternative, though this solvent appears less suitable than water.
1318: About 95% of living matter is built upon only six elements: carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur.
1319: The carbon atom has the unique ability to make four strong chemical bonds with other atoms, including other carbon atoms.
1320: According to NASA's 2015 Astrobiology Strategy, "Life on other worlds is most likely to include microbes, and any complex living system elsewhere is likely to have arisen from and be founded upon microbial life.
1321: The papaya ringspot virus devastated papaya trees in Hawaii in the twentieth century until transgenic papaya plants were given pathogen-derived resistance.
1322: The second generation of crops aimed to improve the quality, often by altering the nutrient profile.
1323: GM crops contribute by improving harvests through reducing insect pressure, increasing nutrient value and tolerating different abiotic stresses.
1324: The majority of GM crops have been modified to be resistant to selected herbicides, usually a glyphosate or glufosinate based one.
1325: A few use the genes that encode for vegetative insecticidal proteins.
1326: Less than one percent of GM crops contained other traits, which include providing virus resistance, delaying senescence and altering the plants composition.
1327: Linear combinations are especially useful in contexts where straightforward addition would violate some normalization rule, such as mixing of strategies in game theory or superposition of states in quantum mechanics.
1328: Division is one of the four basic operations of arithmetic, the ways that numbers are combined to make new numbers.
1329: Those in which a Euclidean division (with remainder) is defined are called Euclidean domains and include polynomial rings in one indeterminate (which define multiplication and addition over single-variabled formulas).
1330: This division sign is also used alone to represent the division operation itself, as for instance as a label on a key of a calculator.
1331: Distributing the objects several at a time in each round of sharing to each portion leads to the idea of 'chunking' a form of division where one repeatedly subtracts multiples of the divisor from the dividend itself.
1332: A person can use logarithm tables to divide two numbers, by subtracting the two numbers' logarithms, then looking up the antilogarithm of the result.
1333: The School of "Minor-talks", which was not a unique school of thought, but a philosophy constructed of all the thoughts which were discussed by and originated from normal people on the street.
1334: Confucianism was particularly strong during the Han Dynasty, whose greatest thinker was Dong Zhongshu, who integrated Confucianism with the thoughts of the Zhongshu School and the theory of the Five Elements.
1335: In particular, they refuted the assumption of Confucius as a godlike figure and considered him as the greatest sage, but simply a human and mortal.
1336: Buddhism arrived in China around the 1st century AD, but it was not until the Northern and Southern, Sui and Tang Dynasties that it gained considerable influence and acknowledgement.
1337: This leads to the inquiry into the one being that underlies the diversity of empirical phenomena and the origin of all things.
1338: Seven Rishis — Atri, Bharadwaja, Gautama, Jamadagni, Kasyapa, Vasishtha, Viswamitra.
1339: In general, the material on race has moved from surface traits to genetics and evolutionary history.
1340: She notes, "At best, one can conclude that biologists and anthropologists now appear equally divided in their beliefs about the nature of race."
1341: 33 health services researchers from differing geographic regions were interviewed in a 2008 study.
1342: Many sociologists focused on African Americans, called Negroes at that time, and claimed that they were inferior to whites.
1343: His solution was largely based on Al-Khwarizmi's work.
1344: However, at some point the quadratic formula begins to lose accuracy because of round off error, while the approximate method continues to improve.
1345: Charles "Buddy" Rogers often gave guests tours of Pickfair, including views of a genuine western bar Pickford had bought for Douglas Fairbanks, and a portrait of Pickford in the drawing room.
1346: She also owned a house in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
1347: Her handprints and footprints are displayed at Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood, California.
1348: The Mary Pickford Theater at the James Madison Memorial Building of the Library of Congress is named in her honor.
1349: A first-run movie theatre in Cathedral City, California is called The Mary Pickford Theatre, which was established on May 25, 2001.
1350: Among them are a rare and spectacular beaded gown she wore in the film Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall (1924) designed by Mitchell Leisen, her special Oscar, and a jewelry box.
1351: The Cham are the indigenous people of the former state of Champa which was conquered by Vietnam in the Cham–Vietnamese wars during Nam tiến.
1352: The Khmer Krom are the indigenous people of the Mekong Delta and Saigon which were acquired by Vietnam from Cambodian King Chey Chettha II in exchange for a Vietnamese princess.
1353: This problem is shared by many other countries in the ASEAN region.
1354: The indigenous peoples of Mindanao are the Lumad peoples and the Moro (Tausug, Maguindanao Maranao and others) who also live in the Sulu archipelago.
1355: These groups are often together spoken of as Indigenous Australians.
1356: During the 20th century, several of these former colonies gained independence and nation-states formed under local control.
1357: Examples include pseudogenes, the non-functional remains of eyes in blind cave-dwelling fish, wings in flightless birds, the presence of hip bones in whales and snakes, and sexual traits in organisms that reproduce via asexual reproduction.
1358: One example is the African lizard Holaspis guentheri, which developed an extremely flat head for hiding in crevices, as can be seen by looking at its near relatives.
1359: Another example is the recruitment of enzymes from glycolysis and xenobiotic metabolism to serve as structural proteins called crystallins within the lenses of organisms' eyes.
1360: These studies have shown that evolution can alter development to produce new structures, such as embryonic bone structures that develop into the jaw in other animals instead forming part of the middle ear in mammals.
1361: These changes in the second species then, in turn, cause new adaptations in the first species.
1362: For instance, an extreme cooperation exists between plants and the mycorrhizal fungi that grow on their roots and aid the plant in absorbing nutrients from the soil.
1363: Rick Colwell, a member of the Deep Carbon Observatory team from Oregon State University, told the BBC: "I think it’s probably reasonable to assume that the subsurface of other planets and their moons are habitable, especially since we’ve seen here on Earth that organisms can function far away from sunlight using the energy provided directly from the rocks deep underground".
1364: The panspermia hypothesis proposes that life elsewhere in the Solar System may have a common origin.
1365: In the 19th century it was again revived in modern form by several scientists, including Jöns Jacob Berzelius (1834), Kelvin (1871), Hermann von Helmholtz (1879) and, somewhat later, by Svante Arrhenius (1903).
1366: One of the early scientific inquires into the topic appeared in an 1878 Scientific American article entitled "Is the Moon Inhabited?"
1367: Warm and pressurized regions in the Moon's interior might still contain liquid water.
1368: There is evidence that Mars had a warmer and wetter past: dried-up riverbeds, polar ice caps, volcanoes, and minerals that form in the presence of water have all been found.
1369: Plants and plant cells have been genetically engineered for production of biopharmaceuticals in bioreactors, a process known as pharming.
1370: Many drugs also contain natural plant ingredients and the pathways that lead to their production have been genetically altered or transferred to other plant species to produce greater volume.
1371: They also pose less risk of being contaminated.
1372: Vaccines are expensive to produce, transport, and administer, so having a system that could produce them locally would allow greater access to poorer and developing areas.
1373: Being stored in plants reduces the long-term cost as they can be disseminated without the need for cold storage, don't need to be purified, and have long term stability.
1374: As of 2018 only three genetically modified animals have been approved, all in the USA.
1375: Some programming languages, such as C, treat integer division as in case 5 above, so the answer is an integer.
1376: Similarly, right division of b by a (written ) is the solution y to the equation .
1377: Examples include matrix algebras and quaternion algebras.
1378: Entry of such an expression into most calculators produces an error message.
1379: Since this replacement reduces the larger of the two numbers, repeating this process gives successively smaller pairs of numbers until the two numbers become equal.
1380: The fact that the GCD can always be expressed in this way is known as Bézout's identity.
1381: Ancient Greek philosophy arose in the 6th century BC, marking the end of the Greek Dark Ages.
1382: It dealt with a wide variety of subjects, including astronomy, epistemology, mathematics, political philosophy, ethics, metaphysics, ontology, logic, biology, rhetoric and aesthetics.
1383: Clear, unbroken lines of influence lead from ancient Greek and Hellenistic philosophers to Roman philosophy, Early Islamic philosophy, Medieval Scholasticism, the European Renaissance and the Age of Enlightenment.
1384: But they taught themselves to reason.
1385: Thales inspired the Milesian school of philosophy and was followed by Anaximander, who argued that the substratum or arche could not be water or any of the classical elements but was instead something "unlimited" or "indefinite" (in Greek, the apeiron).
1386: Contrary to the Milesian school, which posits one stable element as the arche, Heraclitus taught that panta rhei ("everything flows"), the closest element to this eternal flux being fire.
1387: Methods of numerical approximation existed, called prosthaphaeresis, that offered shortcuts around time-consuming operations such as multiplication and taking powers and roots.
1388: Computational algorithms for finding the solutions are an important part of numerical linear algebra, and play a prominent role in engineering, physics, chemistry, computer science, and economics.
1389: For solutions in an integral domain like the ring of the integers, or in other algebraic structures, other theories have been developed, see Linear equation over a ring.
1390: This allows all the language and theory of vector spaces (or more generally, modules) to be brought to bear.
1391: Such a system is known as an underdetermined system.
1392: The second system has a single unique solution, namely the intersection of the two lines.
1393: The family home had been demolished in 1943, and many of the bricks delivered to Pickford in California.
1394: In 1993, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs Walk of Stars was dedicated to her.
1395: From January 2011 until July 2011, the Toronto International Film Festival exhibited a collection of Mary Pickford memorabilia in the Canadian Film Gallery of the TIFF Bell LightBox building.
1396: It was donated to Keene State College and is currently undergoing restoration by the Library of Congress for exhibition.
1397: The Google Doodle of April 8, 2017 commemorated Mary Pickford's 125th birthday.
1398: Gloria Josephine May Swanson (March 27, 1899 – April 4, 1983) was an American actress, producer, and businesswoman.
1399: The remains of at least 25 miniature humans, who lived between 1,000 and 3,000 years ago, were recently found on the islands of Palau in Micronesia.
1400: According to the 2013 census, New Zealand Māori make up 14.9% of the population of New Zealand, with less than half (46.5%) of all Māori residents identifying solely as Māori.
1401: Many Māori national leaders signed a treaty with the British, the Treaty of Waitangi (1840), seen in some circles as forming the modern geo-political entity that is New Zealand.
1402: These issues include cultural and linguistic preservation, land rights, ownership and exploitation of natural resources, political determination and autonomy, environmental degradation and incursion, poverty, health, and discrimination.
1403: The situation can be further confused when there is a complicated or contested history of migration and population of a given region, which can give rise to disputes about primacy and ownership of the land and resources.
1404: Despite the diversity of indigenous peoples, it may be noted that they share common problems and issues in dealing with the prevailing, or invading, society.
1405: Coalitions between organisms of the same species have also evolved.
1406: Here, somatic cells respond to specific signals that instruct them whether to grow, remain as they are, or die.
1407: There are multiple ways to define the concept of "species."
1408: Despite the diversity of various species concepts, these various concepts can be placed into one of three broad philosophical approaches: interbreeding, ecological and phylogenetic.
1409: Despite its wide and long-term use, the BSC like others is not without controversy, for example because these concepts cannot be applied to prokaryotes, and this is called the species problem.
1410: Gene flow may slow this process by spreading the new genetic variants also to the other populations.
1411: The vapor could have been produced by ice volcanoes or by ice near the surface sublimating (transforming from solid to gas).
1412: It is also possible that Europa could support aerobic macrofauna using oxygen created by cosmic rays impacting its surface ice.
1413: On 11 December 2013, NASA reported the detection of "clay-like minerals" (specifically, phyllosilicates), often associated with organic materials, on the icy crust of Europa.
1414: Some claim to have identified evidence that microbial life has existed on Mars.
1415: In 1996, a controversial report stated that structures resembling nanobacteria were discovered in a meteorite, ALH84001, formed of rock ejected from Mars.
1416: NASA officials soon distanced NASA from the scientists' claims, and Stoker herself backed off from her initial assertions.
1417: Canada: Brainwaving The first transgenic mammals were produced by injecting viral DNA into embryos and then implanting the embryos in females.
1418: The development of the CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing system as a cheap and fast way of directly modifying germ cells, effectively halving the amount of time needed to develop genetically modified mammals.
1419: Genetically modified mice have been the most common mammals used in biomedical research, as they are cheap and easy to manipulate.
1420: In 2009, scientists announced that they had successfully transferred a gene into a primate species (marmosets) for the first time.
1421: Stable expression has been accomplished in sheep, pigs, rats and other animals.
1422: Human alpha-1-antitrypsin is another protein that has been produced from goats and is used in treating humans with this deficiency.
1423: With this improvement, the algorithm never requires more steps than five times the number of digits (base 10) of the smaller integer.
1424: The Euclidean algorithm has many theoretical and practical applications.
1425: The Euclidean algorithm may be used to solve Diophantine equations, such as finding numbers that satisfy multiple congruences according to the Chinese remainder theorem, to construct continued fractions, and to find accurate rational approximations to real numbers.
1426: The greatest common divisor is often written as gcd(a, b) or, more simply, as (a, b), although the latter notation is ambiguous, also used for concepts such as an ideal in the ring of integers, which is closely related to GCD.
1427: For example, neither 6 nor 35 is a prime number, since they both have two prime factors: 6 = 2 × 3 and 35 = 5 × 7.
1428: Factorization of large integers is believed to be a computationally very difficult problem, and the security of many widely used cryptographic protocols is based upon its infeasibility.
1429: Being, he argued, by definition implies eternality, while only that which is can be thought; a thing which is, moreover, cannot be more or less, and so the rarefaction and condensation of the Milesians is impossible regarding Being; lastly, as movement requires that something exist apart from the thing moving (viz.
1430: In support of this, Parmenides' pupil Zeno of Elea attempted to prove that the concept of motion was absurd and as such motion did not exist.
1431: Leucippus also proposed an ontological pluralism with a cosmogony based on two main elements: the vacuum and atoms.
1432: While philosophy was an established pursuit prior to Socrates, Cicero credits him as "the first who brought philosophy down from the heavens, placed it in cities, introduced it into families, and obliged it to examine into life and morals, and good and evil."
1433: The fact that many conversations involving Socrates (as recounted by Plato and Xenophon) end without having reached a firm conclusion, or aporetically, has stimulated debate over the meaning of the Socratic method.
1434: Socrates taught that no one desires what is bad, and so if anyone does something that truly is bad, it must be unwillingly or out of ignorance; consequently, all virtue is knowledge.
1435: Any two of these equations have a common solution.
1436: A system of equations whose left-hand sides are linearly independent is always consistent.
1437: This yields a system of equations with one fewer equation and one fewer unknown.
1438: Type 3: Add to one row a scalar multiple of another.
1439: For instance, systems with a symmetric positive definite matrix can be solved twice as fast with the Cholesky decomposition.
1440: A completely different approach is often taken for very large systems, which would otherwise take too much time or memory.
1441: Her schoolgirl crush on Essanay Studios actor Francis X. Bushman led to her aunt taking her to tour the actor's Chicago studio.
1442: Her sound film debut performance in the 1929 The Trespasser, earned her a second Academy Award nomination.
1443: Her father was a Swedish American and her mother was of German, French, and Polish ancestry.
1444: In either version, she was soon hired as an extra.
1445: Her first role was a brief walk-on with actress Gerda Holmes, that paid an enormous (in those days) $3.25.
1446: In 1915, she co-starred in Sweedie Goes to College with her future first husband Wallace Beery.
1447: Notable exceptions are the Sakha and Komi peoples (two northern indigenous peoples of Russia), who now control their own autonomous republics within the Russian state, and the Canadian Inuit, who form a majority of the territory of Nunavut (created in 1999).
1448: This rejection ended up recognizing that there was a pre-existing system of law practised by the Meriam people.
1449: Retrieved on 11 October 2011.
1450: Hindus and Chams have both experienced religious and ethnic persecution and restrictions on their faith under the current Vietnamese government, with the Vietnamese state confiscating Cham property and forbidding Cham from observing their religious beliefs.
1451: In 2012, Vietnamese police in Chau Giang village stormed into a Cham Mosque, stole the electric generator, and also raped Cham girls.
1452: In 2012, Indonesia stated that ‘The Government of Indonesia supports the promotion and protection of indigenous people worldwide ... Indonesia, however, does not recognize the application of the indigenous peoples concept ... in the country’.
1453: In this case, closely related species may regularly interbreed, but hybrids will be selected against and the species will remain distinct.
1454: Speciation has been observed multiple times under both controlled laboratory conditions (see laboratory experiments of speciation) and in nature.
1455: The most common in animals is allopatric speciation, which occurs in populations initially isolated geographically, such as by habitat fragmentation or migration.
1456: The second mode of speciation is peripatric speciation, which occurs when small populations of organisms become isolated in a new environment.
1457: The third mode is parapatric speciation.
1458: Generally this occurs when there has been a drastic change in the environment within the parental species' habitat.
1459: It is designed to assess the past and present habitability on Mars using a variety of scientific instruments.
1460: However, significant advances in the ability to find and resolve light from smaller rocky worlds near their stars are necessary before such spectroscopic methods can be used to analyze extrasolar planets.
1461: In August 2011, findings by NASA, based on studies of meteorites found on Earth, suggest DNA and RNA components (adenine, guanine and related organic molecules), building blocks for life as we know it, may be formed extraterrestrially in outer space.
1462: In August 2012, and in a world first, astronomers at Copenhagen University reported the detection of a specific sugar molecule, glycolaldehyde, in a distant star system.
1463: The Kepler space telescope has also detected a few thousand candidate planets, of which about 11% may be false positives.
1464: The most massive planet listed on the NASA Exoplanet Archive is DENIS-P J082303.1-491201 b, about 29 times the mass of Jupiter, although according to most definitions of a planet, it is too massive to be a planet and may be a brown dwarf instead.
1465: Pig lungs from genetically modified pigs are being considered for transplantation into humans.
1466: Animals have been engineered to grow faster, be healthier and resist diseases.
1467: A GM pig called Enviropig was created with the capability of digesting plant phosphorus more efficiently than conventional pigs.
1468: This could potentially benefit mothers who cannot produce breast milk but want their children to have breast milk rather than formula.
1469: There have been suggestions that genetic engineering could be used to bring animals back from extinction.
1470: It has been used to treat genetic disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, and Leber's congenital amaurosis.
1471: The set of all integral linear combinations of a and b is actually the same as the set of all multiples of g (mg, where m is an integer).
1472: In other words, multiples of the smaller number rk−1 are subtracted from the larger number rk−2 until the remainder rk is smaller than rk−1.
1473: Therefore, c divides the initial remainder r0, since r0 = a − q0b = mc − q0nc = (m − q0n)c.
1474: We first attempt to tile the rectangle using b-by-b square tiles; however, this leaves an r0-by-b residual rectangle untiled, where r0 < b. We then attempt to tile the residual rectangle with r0-by-r0 square tiles.
1475: The theorem which underlies the definition of the Euclidean division ensures that such a quotient and remainder always exist and are unique.
1476: At the end of the loop iteration, the variable b holds the remainder rk, whereas the variable a holds its predecessor, rk−1.
1477: The great statesman Pericles was closely associated with this new learning and a friend of Anaxagoras, however, and his political opponents struck at him by taking advantage of a conservative reaction against the philosophers; it became a crime to investigate the things above the heavens or below the earth, subjects considered impious.
1478: Socrates, however, is the only subject recorded as charged under this law, convicted, and sentenced to death in 399 BCE (see Trial of Socrates).
1479: Plato casts Socrates as the main interlocutor in his dialogues, deriving from them the basis of Platonism (and by extension, Neoplatonism).
1480: Zeno of Citium in turn adapted the ethics of Cynicism to articulate Stoicism.
1481: Along with Xenophon, Plato is the primary source of information about Socrates' life and beliefs and it is not always easy to distinguish between the two.
1482: Although rule by a wise man would be preferable to rule by law, the wise cannot help but be judged by the unwise, and so in practice, rule by law is deemed necessary.
1483: This leads to the class of iterative methods.
1484: In mathematics, a series is, roughly speaking, a description of the operation of adding infinitely many quantities, one after the other, to a given starting quantity.
1485: In addition to their ubiquity in mathematics, infinite series are also widely used in other quantitative disciplines such as physics, computer science, statistics and finance.
1486: Zeno's paradox of Achilles and the tortoise illustrates this counterintuitive property of infinite sums: Achilles runs after a tortoise, but when he reaches the position of the tortoise at the beginning of the race, the tortoise has reached a second position; when he reaches this second position, the tortoise is at a third position, and so on.
1487: This argument does not prove that the sum is equal to 2 (although it is), but it does prove that it is at most 2.
1488: Tests for uniform convergence include the Weierstrass' M-test, Abel's uniform convergence test, Dini's test, and the Cauchy criterion.
1489: Vernon and Swanson projected a great screen chemistry that proved popular with audiences.
1490: Badger was sufficiently impressed by Swanson to recommend her to the director Jack Conway for Her Decision and You Can't Believe Everything in 1918.
1491: 1920), Something to Think About (1920), and The Affairs of Anatol (1921) soon followed.
1492: He had become a star in 1921 for his appearance in The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, but Swanson had known him since his days as an aspiring actor getting small parts, with no seeming hope for his professional future.
1493: Filming was allowed for the first time at many of the historic sites relating to Napoleon.
1494: At the time, Swanson was considered the most bankable star of her era.
1495: The Vietnamese were originally centered around the Red River Delta but engaged in conquest and seized new lands such as Champa, the Mekong Delta (from Cambodia) and the Central Highlands during Nam Tien.
1496: The tremendous scale of Vietnamese Kinh colonists flooding into the Central Highlands has significantly altered the demographics of the region.
1497: And no elimination of one culture by another.”
1498: Indigenous peoples have been denoted primitives, savages or uncivilized.
1499: Some philosophers, such as Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679), considered indigenous people to be merely "savages".
1500: Retrieved from Internet Archive 13 December 2013.
1501: Selection against interbreeding with the metal-sensitive parental population produced a gradual change in the flowering time of the metal-resistant plants, which eventually produced complete reproductive isolation.
1502: This form is rare since even a small amount of gene flow may remove genetic differences between parts of a population.
1503: This is not common in animals as animal hybrids are usually sterile.
1504: This allows the chromosomes from each parental species to form matching pairs during meiosis, since each parent's chromosomes are represented by a pair already.
1505: Indeed, chromosome doubling within a species may be a common cause of reproductive isolation, as half the doubled chromosomes will be unmatched when breeding with undoubled organisms.
1506: Nearly all animal and plant species that have lived on Earth are now extinct, and extinction appears to be the ultimate fate of all species.
1507: One sign that a planet probably already contains life is the presence of an atmosphere with significant amounts of oxygen, since that gas is highly reactive and generally would not last long without constant replenishment.
1508: Even if it is assumed that only one out of a billion of these stars has planets supporting life, there would be some 6.25 billion life-supporting planetary systems in the observable universe.
1509: The earliest recorded assertion of extraterrestrial human life is found in ancient scriptures of Jainism.
1510: Medieval Muslim writers like Fakhr al-Din al-Razi and Muhammad al-Baqir supported cosmic pluralism on the basis of the Qur'an.
1511: Once it became clear that Earth was merely one planet amongst countless bodies in the universe, the theory of extraterrestrial life started to become a topic in the scientific community.
1512: The possibility of extraterrestrials remained a widespread speculation as scientific discovery accelerated.
1513: Germline gene therapy results in any change being inheritable, which has raised concerns within the scientific community.
1514: Aquaculture is a growing industry, currently providing over half the consumed fish worldwide.
1515: Several groups have been developing zebrafish to detect pollution by attaching fluorescent proteins to genes activated by the presence of pollutants.
1516: It was originally developed by one of the groups to detect pollution, but is now part of the ornamental fish trade, becoming the first genetically modified animal to become publicly available as a pet when in 2003 it was introduced for sale in the USA.
1517: Zebrafish are model organisms for developmental processes, regeneration, genetics, behaviour, disease mechanisms and toxicity testing.
1518: GM fish have been developed with promoters driving an over-production of growth hormone for use in the aquaculture industry to increase the speed of development and potentially reduce fishing pressure on wild stocks.
1519: The mathematician and historian B. L. van der Waerden suggests that Book VII derives from a textbook on number theory written by mathematicians in the school of Pythagoras.
1520: Centuries later, Euclid's algorithm was discovered independently both in India and in China, primarily to solve Diophantine equations that arose in astronomy and making accurate calendars.
1521: The Euclidean algorithm was first described numerically and popularized in Europe in the second edition of Bachet's Problèmes plaisants et délectables (Pleasant and enjoyable problems, 1624).
1522: In the 19th century, the Euclidean algorithm led to the development of new number systems, such as Gaussian integers and Eisenstein integers.
1523: Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet seems to have been the first to describe the Euclidean algorithm as the basis for much of number theory.
1524: For example, Dedekind was the first to prove Fermat's two-square theorem using the unique factorization of Gaussian integers.
1525: Plato's dialogues also have metaphysical themes, the most famous of which is his theory of forms.
1526: It likens most humans to people tied up in a cave, who look only at shadows on the walls and have no other conception of reality.
1527: If these travelers then re-entered the cave, the people inside (who are still only familiar with the shadows) would not be equipped to believe reports of this 'outside world'.
1528: Bertrand Russell, A History of Western Philosophy (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1972).
1529: He criticizes the regimes described in Plato's Republic and Laws, and refers to the theory of forms as "empty words and poetic metaphors."
1530: Antisthenes was inspired by the ascetism of Socrates, and accused Plato of pride and conceit.
1531: The convergence is uniform on closed and bounded (that is, compact) subsets of the interior of the disc of convergence: to wit, it is uniformly convergent on compact sets.
1532: The Hilbert–Poincaré series is a formal power series used to study graded algebras.
1533: In the 17th century, James Gregory worked in the new decimal system on infinite series and published several Maclaurin series.
1534: Cauchy (1821) insisted on strict tests of convergence; he showed that if two series are convergent their product is not necessarily so, and with him begins the discovery of effective criteria.
1535: A summability method is such an assignment of a limit to a subset of the set of divergent series which properly extends the classical notion of convergence.
1536: Indian scholars have been using factorial formulas since at least the 12th century.
1537: The production was a disaster, with Parker being indecisive and the actors not experienced enough to deliver the performances she wanted.
1538: The members took further steps by registering their discontent with Will H. Hays, Chairman of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America.
1539: Hays was enthusiastic about the basic story, but did have specific issues that were dealt with before the film's release.
1540: He proposed to personally bankroll her next picture and conducted a thorough examination of her financial records.
1541: Kennedy, however, advised her to hire Erich von Stroheim to direct another silent film, The Swamp, subsequently retitled Queen Kelly.
1542: Stroheim worked for several months on writing the basic script.
1543: The UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, adopted by the General Assembly in 2007, established indigenous peoples' right to self-determination, implying several rights regarding natural resource management.
1544: Oil drilling could destroy thousands of years of culture for the Gwich'in.
1545: Development projects such as dam construction, pipelines and resource extraction have displaced large numbers of indigenous peoples, often without providing compensation.
1546: These women also become economically dependent on men when they lose their livelihoods.
1547: For example the Munduruku people in the Amazon rainforest are opposing the building of Tapajós dam with the help of Greenpeace.
1548: Two main scenarios are proposed, an early expansion to Central Africa, and a single origin of the dispersal radiating from there, or an early separation into an eastward and a southward wave of dispersal, with one wave moving across the Congo basin towards East Africa, and another moving south along the African coast and the Congo River system towards Angola.
1549: Despite the estimated extinction of more than 99 percent of all species that ever lived on Earth, about 1 trillion species are estimated to be on Earth currently with only one-thousandth of one percent described.
1550: The earliest undisputed evidence of life on Earth dates from at least 3.5 billion years ago, during the Eoarchean Era after a geological crust started to solidify following the earlier molten Hadean Eon.
1551: Commenting on the Australian findings, Stephen Blair Hedges wrote, "If life arose relatively quickly on Earth, then it could be common in the universe."
1552: Estimates on the number of Earth's current species range from 10 million to 14 million, of which about 1.9 million are estimated to have been named and 1.6 million documented in a central database to date, leaving at least 80 percent not yet described.
1553: The common descent of organisms was first deduced from four simple facts about organisms: First, they have geographic distributions that cannot be explained by local adaptation.
1554: Fourth, organisms can be classified using these similarities into a hierarchy of nested groups, similar to a family tree.
1555: The idea of life on Mars led British writer H. G. Wells to write the novel The War of the Worlds in 1897, telling of an invasion by aliens from Mars who were fleeing the planet's desiccation.
1556: Belief in extraterrestrial beings continues to be voiced in pseudoscience, conspiracy theories, and popular folklore, notably "Area 51" and legends.
1557: Ward and Brownlee are open to the idea of evolution on other planets that is not based on essential Earth-like characteristics (such as DNA and carbon).
1558: If aliens visit us, the outcome would be much as when Columbus landed in America, which didn't turn out well for the Native Americans", he said.
1559: COSPAR also provides guidelines for planetary protection.
1560: Also, according to the response, there is "no credible information to suggest that any evidence is being hidden from the public's eye."
1561: It obtained regulatory approval in 2015, the first non-plant GMO food to be commercialized.
1562: Drosophila have been used to study genetics and inheritance, embryonic development, learning, behavior, and aging.
1563: Malaria-resistant mosquitoes have been developed in the laboratory by inserting a gene that reduces the development of the malaria parasite and then use homing endonucleases to rapidly spread that gene throughout the male population (known as a gene drive).
1564: Another approach is to use a sterile insect technique, whereby males genetically engineered to be sterile out compete viable males, to reduce population numbers.
1565: The approach is similar to the sterile technique tested on mosquitoes, where males are transformed with a gene that prevents any females born from reaching maturity.
1566: In this case a strain of pink bollworm that were sterilized with radiation were genetically engineered to express a red fluorescent protein making it easier for researchers to monitor them.
1567: Other applications of Euclid's algorithm were developed in the 19th century.
1568: Several novel integer relation algorithms have been developed, such as the algorithm of Helaman Ferguson and R.W. Forcade (1979) and the LLL algorithm.
1569: The players take turns removing m multiples of the smaller pile from the larger.
1570: By allowing u to vary over all possible integers, an infinite family of solutions can be generated from a single solution (x1, y1).
1571: In this field, the results of any mathematical operation (addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division) is reduced modulo 13; that is, multiples of 13 are added or subtracted until the result is brought within the range 0–12.
1572: Now assume that the result holds for all values of N up to M − 1.
1573: It was founded by Euclides of Megara, one of the pupils of Socrates.
1574: Pyrrhonism places the attainment of ataraxia (a state of equanimity) as the way to achieve eudaimonia.
1575: His ethics were based on "the pursuit of pleasure and the avoidance of pain".
1576: Their logical contributions still feature in contemporary propositional calculus.
1577: This skeptical period of ancient Platonism, from Arcesilaus to Philo of Larissa, became known as the New Academy, although some ancient authors added further subdivisions, such as a Middle Academy.
1578: While the objective of the Pyrrhonists was the attainment of ataraxia, after Arcesilaus the Academic skeptics did not hold up ataraxia as the central objective.
1579: In functional languages, the recursive definition is often implemented directly to illustrate recursive functions.
1580: Other implementations (such as computer software such as spreadsheet programs) can often handle larger values.
1581: Compared to the Pickover definition of the superfactorial, the hyperfactorial grows relatively slowly.
1582: There are, relatively speaking, no such simple solutions for factorials; no finite combination of sums, products, powers, exponential functions, or logarithms will suffice to express ; but it is possible to find a general formula for factorials using tools such as integrals and limits from calculus.
1583: The integrals we have discussed so far involve transcendental functions, but the gamma function also arises from integrals of purely algebraic functions.
1584: By taking limits, certain rational products with infinitely many factors can be evaluated in terms of the gamma function as well.
1585: Shooting was shut down in January, and Stroheim fired, after complaints by Swanson about him and about the general direction the film was taking.
1586: The Trespasser in 1929 was a sound production, and garnered Swanson her second Oscar nomination.
1587: The world premiere was held in London, the first American sound production to do so.
1588: Perfect Understanding, a 1933 sound production comedy, was the only film produced by this company.
1589: She began appearing in stage productions and starred in The Gloria Swanson Hour on WPIX-TV in 1948.
1590: The storyline of the film follows a faded silent movie actress Norma Desmond (Swanson), in love with a failed screenwriter Joe Gillis (William Holden).
1591: Cattle terminology in use amongst the relatively few modern Bantu pastoralist groups suggests that the acquisition of cattle may have been from Central Sudanic, Kuliak and Cushitic-speaking neighbors.
1592: Not far from the Mutirikiwi river, the Monomatapa kings built the Great Zimbabwe complex, a civilisation ancestral to the Kalanga people.
1593: The Swahili culture that emerged from these exchanges evinces many Arab and Islamic influences not seen in traditional Bantu culture, as do the many Afro-Arab members of the Bantu Swahili people.
1594: After World War II, the National Party governments adopted that usage officially, while the growing African nationalist movement and its liberal allies turned to the term "African" instead, so that "Bantu" became identified with the policies of apartheid.
1595: Again association with apartheid discredited the term, and the South African government shifted to the politically appealing but historically deceptive term "ethnic homelands".
1596: In Swati the stem is -ntfu and the noun is buntfu.
1597: This view dates back to an idea briefly mentioned by Darwin but later abandoned.
1598: By comparing the anatomies of both modern and extinct species, palaeontologists can infer the lineages of those species.
1599: More recently, evidence for common descent has come from the study of biochemical similarities between organisms.
1600: The eukaryotic cells emerged between 1.6 and 2.7 billion years ago.
1601: Another engulfment of cyanobacterial-like organisms led to the formation of chloroplasts in algae and plants.
1602: In January 2016, scientists reported that, about 800 million years ago, a minor genetic change in a single molecule called GK-PID may have allowed organisms to go from a single cell organism to one of many cells.
1603: Top: Light sources of different magnitudes.
1604: Comet Borrelly, the colors show its brightness over the range of three orders of magnitude (right).
1605: The scale is logarithmic and defined such that each step of one magnitude changes the brightness by a factor of the fifth root of 100, or approximately 2.512.
1606: Astronomers use two different definitions of magnitude: apparent magnitude and absolute magnitude.
1607: The absolute magnitude describes the intrinsic luminosity emitted by an object and is defined to be equal to the apparent magnitude that the object would have if it were placed at a certain distance from Earth, 10 parsecs for stars.
1608: The development of the telescope showed that these large sizes were illusory—stars appeared much smaller through the telescope.
1609: There is also potential to use the silk producing machinery to make other valuable proteins.
1610: A GM chicken that produces the drug Kanuma, an enzyme that treats a rare condition, in its egg passed US regulatory approval in 2015.
1611: There are proposals to use genetic engineering to control cane toads in Australia.
1612: It is also relatively easy to produce stable transgenic nematodes and this along with RNAi are the major tools used in studying their genes.
1613: Transgenic nematodes have been used to study viruses, toxicology, diseases, and to detect environmental pollutants.
1614: Flatworms have the ability to regenerate themselves from a single cell.
1615: For illustration, the probability of a quotient of 1, 2, 3, or 4 is roughly 41.5%, 17.0%, 9.3%, and 5.9%, respectively.
1616: One inefficient approach to finding the GCD of two natural numbers a and b is to calculate all their common divisors; the GCD is then the largest common divisor.
1617: As noted above, the GCD equals the product of the prime factors shared by the two numbers a and b. Present methods for prime factorization are also inefficient; many modern cryptography systems even rely on that inefficiency.
1618: Lehmer's GCD algorithm uses the same general principle as the binary algorithm to speed up GCD computations in arbitrary bases.
1619: The Euclidean algorithm can be used to solve linear Diophantine equations and Chinese remainder problems for polynomials; continued fractions of polynomials can also be defined.
1620: Any Euclidean domain is a unique factorization domain (UFD), although the converse is not true.
1621: In the Byzantine Empire Greek ideas were preserved and studied, and not long after the first major expansion of Islam, however, the Abbasid caliphs authorized the gathering of Greek manuscripts and hired translators to increase their prestige.
1622: Medieval philosophy is the philosophy that existed through the Middle Ages, the period roughly extending from the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century to the Renaissance in the 15th century.
1623: With the possible exceptions of Avicenna and Averroes, medieval thinkers did not consider themselves philosophers at all: for them, the philosophers were the ancient pagan writers such as Plato and Aristotle.
1624: One of the most heavily debated things of the period was that of faith versus reason.
1625: It is generally agreed that it begins with Augustine (354–430) who strictly belongs to the classical period, and ends with the lasting revival of learning in the late eleventh century, at the beginning of the high medieval period.
1626: In later periods, monks were used for training administrators and churchmen.
1627: Its history, notably documented by Philip J. Davis in an article that won him the 1963 Chauvenet Prize, reflects many of the major developments within mathematics since the 18th century.
1628: Instead of finding a specialized proof for each formula, it would be desirable to have a general method of identifying the gamma function.
1629: However, the gamma function does not appear to satisfy any simple differential equation.
1630: The Bohr–Mollerup theorem is useful because it is relatively easy to prove logarithmic convexity for any of the different formulas used to define the gamma function.
1631: As electronic computers became available for the production of tables in the 1950s, several extensive tables for the complex gamma function were published to meet the demand, including a table accurate to 12 decimal places from the U.S. National Bureau of Standards.
1632: In science, a formula is a concise way of expressing information symbolically, as in a mathematical formula or a chemical formula.
1633: Norma plays a card game of bridge with a group of actors also known as "the Waxworks".
1634: Norma dreams of a comeback are subverted, and when Gillis tries to break up with her, she threatens to kill herself, but instead kills him.
1635: Although Swanson had objected to enduring a screen test for the film, she had been glad to be making much more money than she had been in television and on stage.
1636: Swanson later hosted Crown Theatre with Gloria Swanson, a television anthology series in which she occasionally acted.
1637: She was the "mystery guest" on What's My Line.
1638: She made a notable appearance in a 1966 episode of The Beverly Hillbillies, in which she plays herself.
1639: Not all Basques are Basque-speakers.
1640: modern Basque esan) and the suffix -(k)ara ("way (of doing something)").
1641: He records the name of the Basque language as enusquera.
1642: Although they are genetically distinctive in some ways due to isolation, the Basques are still very typically European in terms of their Y-DNA and mtDNA sequences, and in terms of some other genetic loci.
1643: However, studies of the Y-DNA haplogroups found that on their direct male lineages, the vast majority of modern Basques have a common ancestry with other Western Europeans, namely a marked predominance of Indo-European Haplogroup R1b-DF27 (70%).
1644: In spite of its high frequency in Basques, Y-STR internal diversity of R1b-DF27 is lower there, and results in more recent age estimates", implying it was brought to the region from elsewhere.
1645: Various triggers for the Cambrian explosion have been proposed, including the accumulation of oxygen in the atmosphere from photosynthesis.
1646: Artificial selection is the intentional selection of traits in a population of organisms.
1647: Proteins with valuable properties have evolved by repeated rounds of mutation and selection (for example modified enzymes and new antibodies) in a process called directed evolution.
1648: Breeding together different populations of this blind fish produced some offspring with functional eyes, since different mutations had occurred in the isolated populations that had evolved in different caves.
1649: Many human diseases are not static phenomena, but capable of evolution.
1650: It is possible that we are facing the end of the effective life of most of available antibiotics and predicting the evolution and evolvability of our pathogens and devising strategies to slow or circumvent it is requiring deeper knowledge of the complex forces driving evolution at the molecular level.
1651: The more negative the value, the brighter the object.
1652: Stars that have magnitudes between 1.5 and 2.5 are called second-magnitude; there are some 20 stars brighter than 1.5, which are first-magnitude stars (see the list of brightest stars).
1653: Absolute magnitudes for solar system objects are frequently quoted based on a distance of 1 AU.
1654: The simplest form of technology is the development and use of basic tools.
1655: It has helped develop more advanced economies (including today's global economy) and has allowed the rise of a leisure class.
1656: Examples include the rise of the notion of efficiency in terms of human productivity, and the challenges of bioethics.
1657: The bristle worm, a marine annelid, has been modified.
1658: The development of a regulatory framework concerning genetic engineering began in 1975, at Asilomar, California.
1659: It is an international treaty that governs the transfer, handling, and use of genetically modified organisms.
1660: Many experiments also need permission from a national regulatory group or legislation.
1661: There is a near-universal system for assessing the relative risks associated with GMOs and other agents to laboratory staff and the community.
1662: Different countries use different nomenclature to describe the levels and can have different requirements for what can be done at each level.
1663: A Euclidean domain is always a principal ideal domain (PID), an integral domain in which every ideal is a principal ideal.
1664: Numerators and denominators are also used in fractions that are not common, including compound fractions, complex fractions, and mixed numerals.
1665: The term was originally used to distinguish this type of fraction from the sexagesimal fraction used in astronomy.
1666: This was explained in the 17th century textbook The Ground of Arts.
1667: The product of a fraction and its reciprocal is 1, hence the reciprocal is the multiplicative inverse of a fraction.
1668: The remainder becomes the numerator of the fractional part.
1669: Much of the work of Aristotle was unknown in the West in this period.
1670: Augustine is regarded as the greatest of the Church Fathers.
1671: For over a thousand years, there was hardly a Latin work of theology or philosophy that did not quote his writing, or invoke his authority.
1672: He became consul in 510 in the kingdom of the Ostrogoths.
1673: He wrote commentaries on these works, and on the Isagoge by Porphyry (a commentary on the Categories).
1674: Around this period several doctrinal controversies emerged, such as the question of whether God had predestined some for salvation and some for damnation.
1675: In mathematics, a formula generally refers to an identity which equates one mathematical expression to another, with the most important ones being mathematical theorems.
1676: This convention, while less important in a relatively simple formula, means that mathematicians can more quickly manipulate formulas which are larger and more complex.
1677: For example, H2O is the chemical formula for water, specifying that each molecule consists of two hydrogen (H) atoms and one oxygen (O) atom.
1678: In empirical formulas, these proportions begin with a key element and then assign numbers of atoms of the other elements in the compound—as ratios to the key element.
1679: Some types of ionic compounds, however, cannot be written as empirical formulas which contains only the whole numbers.
1680: There are several types of these formulas, including molecular formulas and condensed formulas.
1681: Actor and playwright Harold J. Kennedy, who had learned the ropes at Yale and with Orson Wells' Mercury Theatre, suggested Swanson do a road tour of "Reflected Glory", a comedy that had run on the Broadway stage with Tallulah Bankhead as its star.
1682: After her success with Sunset Boulevard, she starred on Broadway in a revival of Twentieth Century with José Ferrer, and in Nina with David Niven.
1683: As a Republican she supported the 1940 and 1944 campaigns for president of Wendell Willkie and the 1964 presidential campaign of Barry Goldwater.
1684: Taking medication given to her by Beery, purported to be for morning sickness, she aborted the fetus and was taken unconscious to the hospital.
1685: In 1923, she adopted 1-year-old Sonny Smith, whom she renamed Joseph Patrick Swanson after her father.
1686: She had conceived a child with him before her divorce from Somborn was final, a situation that would have led to a public scandal and possible end of her film career.
1687: The collection of mtDNA and Y-DNA haplogroups sampled there differed significantly compared to their modern frequencies.
1688: Rather, some 4500 years ago almost all Y-DNA heritage from Iberian admixture of Mesolithic hunter-gatherers and Neolithic farmers was replaced by the R1b lineage of Indo-European herders from the steppe, and the Basque genetic distinctiveness is a result of centuries of low population size, genetic drift, and endogamy.
1689: Mattias Jakobsson from Uppsala University in Sweden analysed genetic material from eight Stone Age human skeletons found in El Portalón Cavern in Atapuerca, northern Spain.
1690: The findings were published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States.
1691: This admixed group was also found to be ancestral to other modern-day Iberian peoples, but while the Basques remained relatively isolated for millennia after this time, later migrations into Iberia led to distinct and additional admixture in all other Iberian groups.
1692: There is enough evidence to support the hypothesis that at that time and later they spoke old varieties of the Basque language (see: Aquitanian language).
1693: He used evolution strategies to solve complex engineering problems.
1694: In some countries, notably the United States, these tensions between science and religion have fuelled the current creation–evolution controversy, a religious conflict focusing on politics and public education.
1695: The Scopes Trial decision of 1925 caused the subject to become very rare in American secondary biology textbooks for a generation, but it was gradually re-introduced later and became legally protected with the 1968 Epperson v. Arkansas decision.
1696: Natural selection is the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype.
1697: Variation exists within all populations of organisms.
1698: The environment of a genome includes the molecular biology in the cell, other cells, other individuals, populations, species, as well as the abiotic environment.
1699: The term's meanings changed in the early 20th century when American social scientists, beginning with Thorstein Veblen, translated ideas from the German concept of Technik into "technology."
1700: In 1937, the American sociologist Read Bain wrote that "technology includes all tools, machines, utensils, weapons, instruments, housing, clothing, communicating and transporting devices and the skills by which we produce and use them."
1701: More recently, scholars have borrowed from European philosophers of "technique" to extend the meaning of technology to various forms of instrumental reason, as in Foucault's work on technologies of the self (techniques de soi).
1702: to invent useful things or to solve problems" and "a machine, piece of equipment, method, etc.,
1703: The term is often used to imply a specific field of technology, or to refer to high technology or just consumer electronics, rather than technology as a whole.
1704: In this usage, technology refers to tools and machines that may be used to solve real-world problems.
1705: For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety.
1706: Most countries that do not allow GMO cultivation do permit research using GMOs.
1707: While only a few GMOs have been approved for cultivation in the EU a number of GMOs have been approved for import and processing.
1708: The US policy does not focus on the process as much as other countries, looks at verifiable scientific risks and uses the concept of substantial equivalence.
1709: One of the key issues concerning regulators is whether GM products should be labeled.
1710: The dispute involves consumers, producers, biotechnology companies, governmental regulators, non-governmental organizations, and scientists.
1711: Since 5×17 (= 85) is greater than 4×18 (= 72), the result of comparing is .
1712: Since one third of a quarter is one twelfth, two thirds of a quarter is two twelfth.
1713: Sometimes an infinite repeating decimal is required to reach the same precision.
1714: The Egyptians used Egyptian fractions BC.
1715: Their methods gave the same answer as modern methods.
1716: A modern expression of fractions known as bhinnarasi seems to have originated in India in the work of Aryabhatta, Brahmagupta, and Bhaskara.
1717: Is the host the same as Christ's historical body?
1718: This period also witnessed a revival of scholarship.
1719: Later, under St. Abbo of Fleury (abbot 988–1004), head of the reformed abbey school, Fleury enjoyed a second golden age.
1720: The early 13th century witnessed the culmination of the recovery of Greek philosophy.
1721: Powerful Norman kings gathered men of knowledge from Italy and other areas into their courts as a sign of their prestige.
1722: The universities developed in the large cities of Europe during this period, and rival clerical orders within the Church began to battle for political and intellectual control over these centers of educational life.
1723: Functions were originally the idealization of how a varying quantity depends on another quantity.
1724: This definition of "graph" refers to a set of pairs of objects.
1725: When the domain and the codomain are sets of real numbers, each such pair may be thought of as the Cartesian coordinates of a point in the plane.
1726: Occasionally, it may be identified with the function, but this hides the usual interpretation of a function as a process.
1727: A map can have any set as its codomain, while, in some contexts, typically in older books, the codomain of a function is specifically the set of real or complex numbers.
1728: Another common example is the error function.
1729: Following a four-month recuperation from her abortion, they returned to the United States as European nobility.
1730: He became a film executive representing Pathé (USA) in France.
1731: Swanson described herself as a "mental vampire", someone with a searching curiosity about how things worked, and who pursued the possibilities of turning those ideas into reality.
1732: They met by chance in Paris when Swanson was being fitted by Coco Chanel for her 1931 film Tonight or Never.
1733: Her friends, some of whom openly disliked him, thought she was making a mistake.
1734: Swanson had initially thought she was going to be able to retire from acting, but the marriage was troubled by Davey's alcoholism from the start.
1735: The Kingdom of Pamplona, a central Basque realm, later known as Navarre, underwent a process of feudalization and was subject to the influence of its much larger Aragonese, Castilian and French neighbours.
1736: Weakened by the Navarrese civil war, the bulk of the realm eventually fell before the onslaught of the Spanish armies (1512–1524).
1737: Nevertheless, the Basques enjoyed a great deal of self-government until the French Revolution (1790) and the Carlist Wars (1839, 1876), when the Basques supported heir apparent Carlos V and his descendants.
1738: The autonomous community (a concept established in the Spanish Constitution of 1978) known as Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoa or EAE in Basque and as Comunidad Autónoma Vasca or CAV in Spanish (in English: Basque Autonomous Community or BAC), is made up of the three Spanish provinces of Álava, Biscay and Gipuzkoa.
1739: It is sometimes referred to simply as "the Basque Country" (or Euskadi) by writers and public agencies only considering those three western provinces, but also on occasions merely as a convenient abbreviation when this does not lead to confusion in the context.
1740: In particular in common usage the French term Pays Basque ("Basque Country"), in the absence of further qualification, refers either to the whole Basque Country ("Euskal Herria" in Basque), or not infrequently to the northern (or "French") Basque Country specifically.
1741: Natural selection is a cornerstone of modern biology.
1742: The concept of natural selection originally developed in the absence of a valid theory of heredity; at the time of Darwin's writing, science had yet to develop modern theories of genetics.
1743: The classical arguments were reintroduced in the 18th century by Pierre Louis Maupertuis and others, including Darwin's grandfather, Erasmus Darwin.
1744: The success of this theory raised awareness of the vast scale of geological time and made plausible the idea that tiny, virtually imperceptible changes in successive generations could produce consequences on the scale of differences between species.
1745: He was in the process of writing his "big book" to present his research when the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace independently conceived of the principle and described it in an essay he sent to Darwin to forward to Charles Lyell.
1746: In the 3rd edition of 1861 Darwin acknowledged that others—like William Charles Wells in 1813, and Patrick Matthew in 1831—had proposed similar ideas, but had neither developed them nor presented them in notable scientific publications.
1747: W. Brian Arthur defines technology in a similarly broad way as "a means to fulfill a human purpose."
1748: When combined with another term, such as "medical technology" or "space technology," it refers to the state of the respective field's knowledge and tools. "
1749: Additionally, technology is the application of mathematics, science, and the arts for the benefit of life as it is known.
1750: Engineering is the goal-oriented process of designing and making tools and systems to exploit natural phenomena for practical human means, often (but not always) using results and techniques from science.
1751: For example, science might study the flow of electrons in electrical conductors by using already-existing tools and knowledge.
1752: The exact relations between science and technology, in particular, have been debated by scientists, historians, and policymakers in the late 20th century, in part because the debate can inform the funding of basic and applied science.
1753: Most concerns are around the health and environmental effects of GMOs.
1754: Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe.
1755: Gene flow between GM crops and compatible plants, along with increased use of broad-spectrum herbicides, can increase the risk of herbicide resistant weed populations.
1756: In order to address some of these concerns some GMOs have been developed with traits to help control their spread.
1757: Other environmental and agronomic concerns include a decrease in biodiversity, an increase in secondary pests (non-targeted pests) and evolution of resistant insect pests.
1758: The impact of Bt crops on beneficial non-target organisms became a public issue after a 1999 paper suggested they could be toxic to monarch butterflies.
1759: In mathematics, modular arithmetic is a system of arithmetic for integers, where numbers "wrap around" when reaching a certain value, called the modulus.
1760: A very practical application is to calculate checksums within serial number identifiers.
1761: RSA and Diffie–Hellman use modular exponentiation.
1762: It is used by the most efficient implementations of polynomial greatest common divisor, exact linear algebra and Gröbner basis algorithms over the integers and the rational numbers.
1763: The modulo operation, as implemented in many programming languages and calculators, is an application of modular arithmetic that is often used in this context.
1764: The method of casting out nines offers a quick check of decimal arithmetic computations performed by hand.
1765: The great representatives of Dominican thinking in this period were Albertus Magnus and (especially) Thomas Aquinas, whose artful synthesis of Greek rationalism and Christian doctrine eventually came to define Catholic philosophy.
1766: Aquinas showed how it was possible to incorporate much of the philosophy of Aristotle without falling into the "errors" of the Commentator Averroes.
1767: The problem of evil: The classical philosophers had speculated on the nature of evil, but the problem of how an all-powerful, all-knowing, loving God could create a system of things in which evil exists first arose in the medieval period.
1768: However, from the fourteenth century onward, the increasing use of mathematical reasoning in natural philosophy prepared the way for the rise of science in the early modern period.
1769: In the earlier period, writers such as Peter Abelard wrote commentaries on the works of the Old logic (Aristotle's Categories, On interpretation, and the Isagoge of Porphyry).
1770: (The word 'intentionality' was revived by Franz Brentano, who was intending to reflect medieval usage).
1771: Power series can be used to define functions on the domain in which they converge.
1772: Then, the power series can be used to enlarge the domain of the function.
1773: Parts of this may create a plot that represents (parts of) the function.
1774: This is the canonical factorization of .
1775: At that time, only real-valued functions of a real variable were considered, and all functions were assumed to be smooth.
1776: Functions are now used throughout all areas of mathematics.
1777: He was the co-author (ghostwriter) of Billie Holiday's autobiography Lady Sings the Blues, the author of Sugar Blues, a 1975 best-selling health book still in print, and the author of the English version of Georges Ohsawa's You Are All Sanpaku.
1778: Swanson and her husband first got to know John Lennon and Yoko Ono because they were fans of Dufty's work.
1779: She was cremated and her ashes interred at the Episcopal Church of the Heavenly Rest on Fifth Avenue in New York City, attended by only a small circle of family.
1780: In 1974, Swanson was one of the honorees of the first Telluride Film Festival.
1781: Due to the erotic nature of her performances, Nielsen's films were censored in the United States, and her work remained relatively obscure to American audiences.
1782: Nielsen's family moved several times during her childhood while her father sought employment.
1783: Note that in historical contexts Navarre may refer to a wider area, and that the present-day northern Basque province of Lower Navarre may also be referred to as (part of) Nafarroa, while the term "High Navarre" (Nafarroa Garaia in Basque, Alta Navarra in Spanish) is also encountered as a way of referring to the territory of the present-day autonomous community.
1784: Knowledge of Spanish is compulsory under the Spanish constitution (article no.
1785: Knowledge of Basque, after declining for many years during Franco's dictatorship owing to official persecution, is again on the rise due to favorable official language policies and popular support.
1786: Only Spanish is an official language of Navarre, and the Basque language is only co-official in the province's northern region, where most Basque-speaking Navarrese are concentrated.
1787: Much of this population lives in or near the Bayonne-Anglet-Biarritz (BAB) urban belt on the coast (in Basque these are Baiona, Angelu and Miarritze).
1788: Millions of Basque descendants (see Basque American and Basque Canadian) live in North America (the United States; Canada, mainly in the provinces of Newfoundland and Quebec), Latin America (in all 23 countries), South Africa, and Australia.
1789: In a letter to Charles Lyell in September 1860, Darwin regretted the use of the term "Natural Selection", preferring the term "Natural Preservation".
1790: However, natural selection remained controversial as a mechanism, partly because it was perceived to be too weak to explain the range of observed characteristics of living organisms, and partly because even supporters of evolution balked at its "unguided" and non-progressive nature, a response that has been characterised as the single most significant impediment to the idea's acceptance.
1791: With the early 20th century integration of evolution with Mendel's laws of inheritance, the so-called modern synthesis, scientists generally came to accept natural selection.
1792: J. B. S. Haldane introduced the concept of the "cost" of natural selection.
1793: However, natural selection is "blind" in the sense that changes in phenotype can give a reproductive advantage regardless of whether or not the trait is heritable.
1794: If the traits that give these individuals a reproductive advantage are also heritable, that is, passed from parent to offspring, then there will be differential reproduction, that is, a slightly higher proportion of fast rabbits or efficient algae in the next generation.
1795: Early humans evolved from a species of foraging hominids which were already bipedal, with a brain mass approximately one third of modern humans.
1796: The invention of polished stone axes was a major advance that allowed forest clearance on a large scale to create farms.
1797: The earliest known use of wind power is the sailing ship; the earliest record of a ship under sail is that of a Nile boat dating to the 8th-millennium BCE.
1798: According to archaeologists, the wheel was invented around 4000 BCE probably independently and nearly simultaneously in Mesopotamia (in present-day Iraq), the Northern Caucasus (Maykop culture) and Central Europe.
1799: More recently, the oldest-known wooden wheel in the world was found in the Ljubljana marshes of Slovenia.
1800: The ancient Sumerians used the potter's wheel and may have invented it.
1801: With the ability to genetically engineer humans now possible there are ethical concerns over how far this technology should go, or if it should be used at all.
1802: October 2006 the rigor of the regulatory process, consolidation of control of the food supply in companies that make and sell GMOs, exaggeration of the benefits of genetic modification, or concerns over the use of herbicides with glyphosate.
1803: GMOs arrived on the scene as the public confidence in food safety, attributed to recent food scares such as Bovine spongiform encephalopathy and other scandals involving government regulation of products in Europe, was low.
1804: Genetic engineering, also called genetic modification or genetic manipulation, is the direct manipulation of an organism's genes using biotechnology.
1805: A construct is usually created and used to insert this DNA into the host organism.
1806: The new DNA can be inserted randomly, or targeted to a specific part of the genome.
1807: A linear system of congruences can be solved in polynomial time with a form of Gaussian elimination, for details see linear congruence theorem.
1808: The multiplication of integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers (fractions) and real numbers is defined by a systematic generalization of this basic definition.
1809: The product of two measurements is a new type of measurement.
1810: The inverse operation of multiplication is division.
1811: The division of a number other than 0 by itself equals 1.
1812: This implicit usage of multiplication can cause ambiguity when the concatenated variables happen to match the name of another variable, when a variable name in front of a parenthesis can be confused with a function name, or in the correct determination of the order of operations.
1813: The designation "Renaissance philosophy" is used by scholars of intellectual history to refer to the thought of the period running in Europe roughly between 1355 and 1650 (the dates shift forward for central and northern Europe and for areas such as Spanish America, India, Japan, and China under European influence).
1814: The assumption that Aristotle's works were foundational to an understanding of philosophy did not wane during the Renaissance, which saw a flourishing of new translations, commentaries, and other interpretations of his works, both in Latin and in the vernacular.
1815: The latter, similar in some ways to modern debates, examined the pros and cons of particular philosophical positions or interpretations.
1816: Plato, known directly only through two and a half dialogues in the Middle Ages, came to be known through numerous Latin translations in fifteenth century Italy, culminating in the hugely influential translation of his complete works by Marsilio Ficino in Florence in 1484.
1817: Not all Renaissance humanists followed his example in all things, but Petrarch contributed to a broadening of his time's 'canon' (pagan poetry had previously been considered frivolous and dangerous), something that happened in philosophy as well.
1818: Other movements from ancient philosophy also re-entered the mainstream.
1819: This is how inverse trigonometric functions are defined in terms of trigonometric functions, where the trigonometric functions are monotonic.
1820: Usefulness of the concept of multi-valued functions is clearer when considering complex functions, typically analytic functions.
1821: Such a function is called the principal value of the function.
1822: Functional programming is the programming paradigm consisting of building programs by using only subroutines that behave like mathematical functions.
1823: Except for computer-language terminology, "function" has the usual mathematical meaning in computer science.
1824: Terms are manipulated through some rules, (the -equivalence, the -reduction, and the -conversion), which are the axioms of the theory and may be interpreted as rules of computation.
1825: Nielsen's father died when she was fourteen years old.
1826: In 1901, 21-year-old Nielsen became pregnant and gave birth to a daughter, Jesta.
1827: Nielsen graduated from the Theater school in 1902.
1828: Nielsen's minimalist acting style was evidenced in her successful portrayal of a naive young woman lured into a tragic life.
1829: Nielsen and Gad married, then made four more films together.
1830: I realised that the age of short film was past.
1831: Estimates range between 2.5 - 5 million Basque descendants live in Chile; the Basque have been a major if not the strongest influence in the country's cultural and economic development.
1832: It consisted mostly of the area which is today the states of Chihuahua and Durango.
1833: In Guatemala, most Basques have been concentrated in Sacatepequez Department, Antigua Guatemala, Jalapa for six generations now, while some have migrated to Guatemala City.
1834: Bambuco, a Colombian folk music, has Basque roots.
1835: Elko, Nevada, sponsors an annual Basque festival that celebrates the dance, cuisine and cultures of the Basque peoples of Spanish, French and Mexican nationalities who have arrived in Nevada since the late 19th century.
1836: Some of North America's largest ranches, which were founded under these colonial land grants, can be found in this region.
1837: This gives the appearance of purpose, but in natural selection there is no intentional choice.
1838: This gave dark-coloured moths a better chance of surviving to produce dark-coloured offspring, and in just fifty years from the first dark moth being caught, nearly all of the moths in industrial Manchester were dark.
1839: If an organism lives half as long as others of its species, but has twice as many offspring surviving to adulthood, its genes become more common in the adult population of the next generation.
1840: A distinction must be made between the concept of "survival of the fittest" and "improvement in fitness". "
1841: Haldane called this process "substitution" or more commonly in biology, this is called "fixation".
1842: The probability of a beneficial mutation occurring on some member of a population depends on the total number of replications of that variant.
1843: The first two-wheeled carts were derived from travois and were first used in Mesopotamia and Iran in around 3000 BCE.
1844: A bathtub virtually identical to modern ones was unearthed at the Palace of Knossos.
1845: The primary sewer in Rome was the Cloaca Maxima; construction began on it in the sixth century BCE and it is still in use today.
1846: Medieval technology saw the use of simple machines (such as the lever, the screw, and the pulley) being combined to form more complicated tools, such as the wheelbarrow, windmills and clocks, and a system of universities developed and spread scientific ideas and practices.
1847: Starting in the United Kingdom in the 18th century, the Industrial Revolution was a period of great technological discovery, particularly in the areas of agriculture, manufacturing, mining, metallurgy, and transport, driven by the discovery of steam power and the widespread application of the factory system.
1848: The rise in technology has led to skyscrapers and broad urban areas whose inhabitants rely on motors to transport them and their food supplies.
1849: Rudolf Jaenisch created the first GM animal when he inserted foreign DNA into a mouse in 1974.
1850: Genetically modified food has been sold since 1994, with the release of the Flavr Savr tomato.
1851: In 2016 salmon modified with a growth hormone were sold.
1852: By knocking out genes responsible for certain conditions it is possible to create animal model organisms of human diseases.
1853: The rise of commercialised genetically modified crops has provided economic benefit to farmers in many different countries, but has also been the source of most of the controversy surrounding the technology.
1854: Gene flow, impact on non-target organisms, control of the food supply and intellectual property rights have also been raised as potential issues.
1855: The numbers to be multiplied are generally called the "factors".
1856: Also as the result of a multiplication does not depend on the order of the factors, the distinction between "multiplicand" and "multiplier" is useful only at a very elementary level and in some multiplication algorithms, such as the long multiplication.
1857: The result of a multiplication is called a product.
1858: The slide rule allowed numbers to be quickly multiplied to about three places of accuracy.
1859: The general theory is given by dimensional analysis.
1860: The complex numbers do not have an ordering.
1861: This position came under increasing strain in the Renaissance, as various thinkers claimed that Thomas's classifications were inaccurate, and that ethics were the most important part of morality.
1862: As we have seen, they believed that philosophy could be brought under the wing of rhetoric.
1863: In 1416–1417, Leonardo Bruni, the pre-eminent humanist of his time and chancellor of Florence, re-translated Aristotle's Ethics into a more flowing, idiomatic and classical Latin.
1864: The driving conviction was that philosophy should be freed of its technical jargon so that more people would be able to read it.
1865: Desiderius Erasmus, the great Dutch humanist, even prepared a Greek edition of Aristotle, and eventually those teaching philosophy in the universities had to at least pretend that they knew Greek.
1866: Once it had been determined, however, that Italian was a language with literary merit and that it could carry the weight of philosophical discussion, numerous efforts in this direction started to appear, particularly from the 1540s onward.
1867: Nicolas Chuquet used a form of exponential notation in the 15th century, which was later used by Henricus Grammateus and Michael Stifel in the 16th century.
1868: Thus they would write polynomials, for example, as .
1869: The result is always a positive real number, and the identities and properties shown above for integer exponents remain true with these definitions for real exponents.
1870: This function equals the usual th root for positive real radicands.
1871: This is the starting point of the mathematical theory of semigroups.
1872: We can again replace the set N with a cardinal number n to get Vn, although without choosing a specific standard set with cardinality n, this is defined only up to isomorphism.
1873: It was international film sales that provided Union with eight Nielsen films per year.
1874: I used every available means – and devised many new ones – in order to bring the Asta Nielsen films to the world."
1875: In a Russian popularity poll of 1911, Nielsen was voted the world's top female movie star, behind Linder and ahead of her Danish compatriot Valdemar Psilander.
1876: In 1921, Nielsen, through her own film distribution company of Asta Films, appeared in the Svend Gade and Heinz Schall directed Hamlet.
1877: However, scholarly works such as the authoritative filmography published by Filmarchiv Austria in 2010 make no mention of such a film.
1878: She worked in German films until the start of sound movies.
1879: There is a history of Basque culture in Chino, California.
1880: They are mostly descendants of settlers from Spain and Mexico.
1881: This sense of Basque identity tied to the local language does not only exist in isolation.
1882: As with many European states, a regional identity, be it linguistically derived or otherwise, is not mutually exclusive with the broader national one.
1883: I have friends who are involved in the political side of things but that is not for me.
1884: There are extremely few Basque monolingual speakers: essentially all Basque speakers are bilingual on both sides of the border.
1885: In this experiment, "improvement in fitness" depends on the number of replications of the particular variant for a new variant to appear that is capable of growing in the next higher drug concentration region.
1886: Richard Lenski's classic E. coli long-term evolution experiment is an example of adaptation in a competitive environment, ("improvement in fitness" during "survival of the fittest").
1887: The uncommon disruptive selection also acts during transition periods when the current mode is sub-optimal, but alters the trait in more than one direction.
1888: Some biologists recognise just two types: viability (or survival) selection, which acts to increase an organism's probability of survival, and fecundity (or fertility or reproductive) selection, which acts to increase the rate of reproduction, given survival.
1889: In kin selection and intragenomic conflict, gene-level selection provides a more apt explanation of the underlying process.
1890: Ecological selection is natural selection via any means other than sexual selection, such as kin selection, competition, and infanticide.
1891: The 20th century brought a host of innovations.
1892: Information technology subsequently led to the birth in the 1980s of the Internet, which ushered in the current Information Age.
1893: Complex manufacturing and construction techniques and organizations are needed to make and maintain some of the newer technologies, and entire industries have arisen to support and develop succeeding generations of increasingly more complex tools.
1894: Transhumanists generally believe that the point of technology is to overcome barriers, and that what we commonly refer to as the human condition is just another barrier to be surpassed.
1895: They suggest that the inevitable result of such a society is to become evermore technological at the cost of freedom and psychological health.
1896: He hopes to reveal the essence of technology in a way that 'in no way confines us to a stultified compulsion to push on blindly with technology or, what comes to the same thing, to rebel helplessly against it.'
1897: This is much faster, can be used to insert any genes from any organism (even ones from different domains) and prevents other undesirable genes from also being added.
1898: Drugs, vaccines and other products have been harvested from organisms engineered to produce them.
1899: Synthetic biology is an emerging discipline that takes genetic engineering a step further by introducing artificially synthesised material into an organism.
1900: If genetic material from another species is added to the host, the resulting organism is called transgenic.
1901: In 1973 Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen created the first transgenic organism by inserting antibiotic resistance genes into the plasmid of an Escherichia coli bacterium.
1902: In 1976 Genentech, the first genetic engineering company, was founded by Herbert Boyer and Robert Swanson and a year later the company produced a human protein (somatostatin) in E.coli.
1903: Here we have identity 1, as opposed to groups under addition where the identity is typically 0.
1904: To see this, consider the set of invertible square matrices of a given dimension over a given field.
1905: Another fact worth noticing is that the integers under multiplication is not a group—even if we exclude zero.
1906: In mathematics, a percentage (from Latin per centum "by a hundred") is a number or ratio expressed as a fraction of 100.
1907: Computation with these fractions was equivalent to computing percentages.
1908: Whenever communicating about a percentage, it is important to specify what it is relative to (i.e., what is the total that corresponds to 100%).
1909: We know that debates about the freedom of the will continued to flare up (for instance, in the famous exchanges between Erasmus and Martin Luther), that Spanish thinkers were increasingly obsessed with the notion of nobility, that duelling was a practice that generated a large literature in the sixteenth century (was it permissible or not?).
1910: We must not forget that most philosophers of the time were at least nominal, if not devout, Christians, that the sixteenth century saw both the Protestant and the Catholic reformations, and that Renaissance philosophy culminates with the period of the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648).
1911: In conclusion, like any other moment in the history of thought Renaissance philosophy cannot be considered to have provided something entirely new nor to have continued for centuries to repeat the conclusions of its predecessors.
1912: Modern philosophy is philosophy developed in the modern era and associated with modernity.
1913: By the 17th and 18th centuries the major figures in philosophy of mind, epistemology, and metaphysics were roughly divided into two main groups.
1914: The "Empiricists," by contrast, held that knowledge must begin with sensory experience.
1915: Nicolas Bourbaki, Elements of Mathematics, Theory of Sets, Springer-Verlag, 2004, III.§3.5.
1916: Iterating tetration leads to another operation, and so on, a concept named hyperoperation.
1917: In applied settings, exponential functions model a relationship in which a constant change in the independent variable gives the same proportional change (that is, percentage increase or decrease) in the dependent variable.
1918: This function property leads to exponential growth or exponential decay.
1919: Similarly, the composition of onto (surjective) functions is always onto.
1920: Then one can form chains of transformations composed together, such as .
1921: Thereafter, Nielsen acted only on stage.
1922: Understanding the implications, Nielsen declined and left Germany in 1936.
1923: They were divorced by 1919 when Nielsen married the Swedish shipbuilder Freddy Windgårdh.
1924: They began a long-term common-law marriage that lasted from 1923 until the late 1930s.
1925: Fred Astaire (born Frederick Austerlitz; May 10, 1899 – June 22, 1987) was an American dancer, actor, singer, choreographer, and television presenter.
1926: He starred in more than 10 Broadway and West End musicals, made 31 musical films, four television specials, and numerous recordings.
1927: The Basque language is thought to be a genetic language isolate in contrast with other European languages, almost all of which belong to the broad Indo-European language family.
1928: Home in this context is synonymous with family roots.
1929: As in other cultures, the fate of other family members depended on the assets of a family: wealthy Basque families tended to provide for all children in some way, while less-affluent families may have had only one asset to provide to one child.
1930: Mostly after the advent of industrialisation, this system resulted in the emigration of many rural Basques to Spain, France or the Americas.
1931: Some scholars and commentators have attempted to reconcile these points by assuming that patrilineal kinship represents an innovation.
1932: They emerged from the Franco regime with a revitalized language and culture.
1933: However, in some species, mate choice is primarily by males, as in some fishes of the family Syngnathidae.
1934: Since the discovery of penicillin in 1928, antibiotics have been used to fight bacterial diseases.
1935: Genetic variation is the result of mutations, genetic recombinations and alterations in the karyotype (the number, shape, size and internal arrangement of the chromosomes).
1936: However, many mutations in non-coding DNA have deleterious effects.
1937: Changes in these often have large effects on the phenotype of the individual because they regulate the function of many other genes.
1938: When such mutations result in a higher fitness, natural selection favours these phenotypes and the novel trait spreads in the population.
1939: Some of the most poignant criticisms of technology are found in what are now considered to be dystopian literary classics such as Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, Anthony Burgess's A Clockwork Orange, and George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four.
1940: The late cultural critic Neil Postman distinguished tool-using societies from technological societies and from what he called "technopolies," societies that are dominated by the ideology of technological and scientific progress to the exclusion or harm of other cultural practices, values, and world-views.
1941: Nikolas Kompridis has also written about the dangers of new technology, such as genetic engineering, nanotechnology, synthetic biology, and robotics.
1942: Another prominent critic of technology is Hubert Dreyfus, who has published books such as On the Internet and What Computers Still Can't Do.
1943: In his article, Jared Bernstein, a Senior Fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, questions the widespread idea that automation, and more broadly, technological advances, have mainly contributed to this growing labor market problem.
1944: He uses two main arguments to defend his point.
1945: The insulin produced by bacteria was approved for release by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1982.
1946: The People's Republic of China was the first country to commercialise transgenic plants, introducing a virus-resistant tobacco in 1992.
1947: In 1995, Bt Potato was approved safe by the Environmental Protection Agency, after having been approved by the FDA, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the US.
1948: Genetic screens can be carried out to determine potential genes and further tests then used to identify the best candidates.
1949: These segments can then be extracted through gel electrophoresis.
1950: Once isolated the gene is ligated into a plasmid that is then inserted into a bacterium.
1951: When speaking of a "10% rise" or a "10% fall" in a quantity, the usual interpretation is that this is relative to the initial value of that quantity.
1952: The same confusion between the different concepts of percent(age) and percentage points can potentially cause a major misunderstanding when journalists report about election results, for example, expressing both new results and differences with earlier results as percentages.
1953: The term has been attributed to Latin per centum.
1954: Grammar and style guides often differ as to how percentages are to be written.
1955: When interest rates are very low, the number 0 is included if the interest rate is less than 1%, e.g. "% Treasury Stock", not "% Treasury Stock".)
1956: Likewise, the winning percentage of a team, the fraction of matches that the club has won, is also usually expressed as a decimal proportion; a team that has a .500 winning percentage has won 50% of their matches.
1957: Other important figures in political philosophy include Thomas Hobbes and Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
1958: Kant sparked a storm of philosophical work in Germany in the early nineteenth century, beginning with German idealism.
1959: Karl Marx appropriated both Hegel's philosophy of history and the empirical ethics dominant in Britain, transforming Hegel's ideas into a strictly materialist form, setting the grounds for the development of a science of society.
1960: Arthur Schopenhauer took idealism to the conclusion that the world was nothing but the futile endless interplay of images and desires, and advocated atheism and pessimism.
1961: Descartes argued that many predominant Scholastic metaphysical doctrines were meaningless or false.
1962: He tries to set aside as much as he possibly can of all his beliefs, to determine what if anything he knows for certain.
1963: This alternative notation is called postfix notation.
1964: The category of sets with functions as morphisms is the prototypical category.
1965: For example, the decibel (dB) is a unit used to express ratio as logarithms, mostly for signal power and amplitude (of which sound pressure is a common example).
1966: They help to describe frequency ratios of musical intervals, appear in formulas counting prime numbers or approximating factorials, inform some models in psychophysics, and can aid in forensic accounting.
1967: The next integer is 4, which is the number of digits of 1430.
1968: Prior to Napier's invention, there had been other techniques of similar scopes, such as the prosthaphaeresis or the use of tables of progressions, extensively developed by Jost Bürgi around 1600.
1969: Astaire's mother was born in the US to Lutheran German immigrants from East Prussia and Alsace.
1970: Fritz was seeking work in the brewing trade and moved to Omaha, Nebraska, where he was employed by the Storz Brewing Company.
1971: Johanna planned a "brother and sister act", common in vaudeville at the time, for her two children.
1972: They began training at the Alviene Master School of the Theatre and Academy of Cultural Arts.
1973: They were taught dance, speaking, and singing in preparation for developing an act.
1974: In an interview, Astaire's daughter, Ava Astaire McKenzie, observed that they often put Fred in a top hat to make him look taller.
1975: The region has been a source of missionaries like Francis Xavier and Michel Garicoïts.
1976: Lasuén was the successor to Franciscan Padre Junípero Serra and founded 9 of the 21 extant California Missions along the coast.
1977: By the time Henry III of Navarre converted to Catholicism in order to become king of France, Protestantism virtually disappeared from the Basque community.
1978: Nowadays, according to one single opinion poll, only slightly more than 50% of Basques profess some kind of belief in God, while the rest are either agnostic or atheist.
1979: According to one, Christianity arrived in the Basque Country during the 4th and 5th centuries but according to the other, it did not take place until the 12th and 13th centuries.
1980: In this sense, Christianity arrived "early".
1981: However, it is intrinsic to the concept of a species that hybrids are selected against, opposing the evolution of reproductive isolation, a problem that was recognised by Darwin.
1982: Phenotype is determined by an organism's genetic make-up (genotype) and the environment in which the organism lives.
1983: An example is the ABO blood type antigens in humans, where three alleles govern the phenotype.
1984: This process can continue until the allele is fixed and the entire population shares the fitter phenotype.
1985: Stabilizing selection conserves functional genetic features, such as protein-coding genes or regulatory sequences, over time by selective pressure against deleterious variants.
1986: Some forms of balancing selection do not result in fixation, but maintain an allele at intermediate frequencies in a population.
1987: Indeed, automation threatens repetitive jobs but higher-end jobs are still necessary because they complement technology and manual jobs that "requires flexibility judgment and common sense" remain hard to replace with machines.
1988: Technology is often considered too narrowly; according to Hughes, "Technology is a creative process involving human ingenuity".
1989: They have often supposed that technology is easily controllable and this assumption has to be thoroughly questioned.
1990: Solutionism is the ideology that every social issue can be solved thanks to technology and especially thanks to the internet.
1991: Benjamin R. Cohen and Gwen Ottinger also discussed the multivalent effects of technology.
1992: The use of basic technology is also a feature of other animal species apart from humans.
1993: These include a promoter and terminator region, which initiate and end transcription.
1994: This ability can be induced in other bacteria via stress (e.g. thermal or electric shock), which increases the cell membrane's permeability to DNA; up-taken DNA can either integrate with the genome or exist as extrachromosomal DNA.
1995: In plants the DNA is often inserted using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, taking advantage of the Agrobacteriums T-DNA sequence that allows natural insertion of genetic material into plant cells.
1996: In plants this is accomplished through the use of tissue culture.
1997: Selectable markers are used to easily differentiate transformed from untransformed cells.
1998: These tests can also confirm the chromosomal location and copy number of the inserted gene.
1999: Subtraction also obeys predictable rules concerning related operations, such as addition and multiplication.
2000: Performing subtraction on natural numbers is one of the simplest numerical tasks.
2001: Formally, the number being subtracted is known as the subtrahend, while the number it is subtracted from is the minuend.
2002: Subtraction" is an English word derived from the Latin verb subtrahere, which in turn is a compound of sub "from under" and trahere "to pull".
2003: From position 3, it takes no steps to the left to stay at 3, so .
2004: To represent such an operation, the line must be extended.
2005: From this basis he builds his knowledge back up again.
2006: While historicism also acknowledges the role of experience, it differs from empiricism by assuming that sensory data cannot be understood without considering the historical and cultural circumstances in which observations are made.
2007: As such empiricism is first and foremost characterized by the ideal to let observational data "speak for themselves", while the competing views are opposed to this ideal.
2008: In other words: Empiricism as a concept has to be constructed along with other concepts, which together make it possible to make important discriminations between different ideals underlying contemporary science.
2009: Epistemologically, idealism manifests as a skepticism about the possibility of knowing any mind-independent thing.
2010: It describes a process where theory is extracted from practice, and applied back to practice to form what is called intelligent practice.
2011: Speaking of a number as requiring so many figures is a rough allusion to common logarithm, and was referred to by Archimedes as the “order of a number”.
2012: Such methods are called prosthaphaeresis.
2013: For example, each chamber of the shell of a nautilus is an approximate copy of the next one, scaled by a constant factor.
2014: Logarithms are also linked to self-similarity.
2015: It is used to quantify the loss of voltage levels in transmitting electrical signals, to describe power levels of sounds in acoustics, and the absorbance of light in the fields of spectrometry and optics.
2016: Vinegar typically has a pH of about 3.
2017: As a result of their father's salesmanship, Fred and Adele landed a major contract and played the Orpheum Circuit in the Midwest, Western and some Southern cities in the US.
2018: In 1912, Fred became an Episcopalian.
2019: From vaudeville dancer Aurelio Coccia, they learned the tango, waltz, and other ballroom dances popularized by Vernon and Irene Castle.
2020: He first met George Gershwin, who was working as a song plugger for Jerome H. Remick's music publishing company, in 1916.
2021: Of their work in The Passing Show of 1918, Heywood Broun wrote: "In an evening in which there was an abundance of good dancing, Fred Astaire stood out ... He and his partner, Adele Astaire, made the show pause early in the evening with a beautiful loose-limbed dance."
2022: But by this time, Astaire's dancing skill was beginning to outshine his sister's.
2023: According to one tradition, she travelled every seven years between a cave on Mount Anboto and one on another mountain (the stories vary); the weather would be wet when she was in Anboto, dry when she was in Aloña, or Supelegor, or Gorbea.
2024: It's said that when they gathered in the high caves of the sacred peaks, they engendered the storms.
2025: Legends also speak of many and abundant genies, like jentilak (equivalent to giants), lamiak (equivalent to nymphs), mairuak (builders of the cromlechs or stone circles, literally Moors), iratxoak (imps), sorginak (witches, priestess of Mari), and so on.
2026: There is a trickster named San Martin Txiki ("St Martin the Lesser").
2027: The jentilak ('Giants'), on the other hand, are a legendary people which explains the disappearance of a people of Stone Age culture that used to live in the high lands and with no knowledge of iron.
2028: For more than a century, scholars have widely discussed the high status of Basque women in law codes, as well as their positions as judges, inheritors, and arbitrators through ante-Roman, medieval, and modern times.
2029: Maintenance of allelic variation can also occur through disruptive or diversifying selection, which favours genotypes that depart from the average in either direction (that is, the opposite of over-dominance), and can result in a bimodal distribution of trait values.
2030: However, after a period with no new mutations, the genetic variation at these sites is eliminated due to genetic drift.
2031: The exact outcome of the two processes depends both on the rate at which new mutations occur and on the strength of the natural selection, which is a function of how unfavourable the mutation proves to be.
2032: The chance that such a reshuffle occurs between two alleles is inversely related to the distance between them.
2033: A strong selective sweep results in a region of the genome where the positively selected haplotype (the allele and its neighbours) are in essence the only ones that exist in the population.
2034: Background selection is the opposite of a selective sweep.
2035: The ability to make and use tools was once considered a defining characteristic of the genus Homo.
2036: In 2005, futurist Ray Kurzweil predicted that the future of technology would mainly consist of an overlapping "GNR Revolution" of genetics, nanotechnology and robotics, with robotics being the most important of the three.
2037: Humans have already made some of the first steps toward achieving the GNR revolution.
2038: Some believe that the future of robotics will involve a 'greater than human non-biological intelligence.'
2039: This future shares many similarities with the concept of planned obsolescence, however, planned obsolescence is seen as a "sinister business strategy.'
2040: Genetics have also been explored, with humans understanding genetic engineering to a certain degree.
2041: The new genetic material can be inserted randomly within the host genome or targeted to a specific location.
2042: The frequency of gene targeting can be greatly enhanced through genome editing.
2043: TALEN and CRISPR are the two most commonly used and each has its own advantages.
2044: Most commercialised GMOs are insect resistant or herbicide tolerant crop plants.
2045: Mouse hybridomas, cells fused together to create monoclonal antibodies, have been adapted through genetic engineering to create human monoclonal antibodies.
2046: Genetic engineering is also used to create animal models of human diseases.
2047: The leading digit "1" of the result is then discarded.
2048: In the ten's place, 0 is less than 1, so the 0 is increased by 10, and the difference with 1, which is 9, is written down in the ten's place.
2049: The subtraction then proceeds in the hundreds place, where 6 is not less than 5, so the difference is written down in the result's hundred's place.
2050: Rather it increases the subtrahend hundred's digit by one.
2051: The answer is 1, and is written down in the result's hundred's place.
2052: This theorem was first conjectured by Pierre de Fermat in 1637 in the margin of a copy of Arithmetica, where he claimed that he had a proof that was too large to fit in the margin.
2053: Brian Leiter (2006) webpage “Analytic” and “Continental” Philosophy.
2054: Contemporary philosophy is the present period in the history of Western philosophy beginning at the early 20th century with the increasing professionalization of the discipline and the rise of analytic and continental philosophy.
2055: Germany was the first country to professionalize philosophy.
2056: Furthermore, unlike many of the sciences for which there has come to be a healthy industry of books, magazines, and television shows meant to popularize science and communicate the technical results of a scientific field to the general populace, works by professional philosophers directed at an audience outside the profession remain rare.
2057: Each division organises a large annual conference.
2058: Among its many other tasks, the association is responsible for administering many of the profession's top honors.
2059: This "law", however, is less realistic than more recent models, such as Stevens's power law.)
2060: When the logarithm of a random variable has a normal distribution, the variable is said to have a log-normal distribution.
2061: For such a model, the likelihood function depends on at least one parameter that must be estimated.
2062: Similarly, the merge sort algorithm sorts an unsorted list by dividing the list into halves and sorting these first before merging the results.
2063: Lyapunov exponents use logarithms to gauge the degree of chaoticity of a dynamical system.
2064: The Sierpinski triangle (pictured) can be covered by three copies of itself, each having sides half the original length.
2065: Astaire's tap dancing was recognized by then as among the best.
2066: After the close of Funny Face, the Astaires went to Hollywood for a screen test (now lost) at Paramount Pictures, but Paramount deemed them unsuitable for films.
2067: The end of the partnership was traumatic for Astaire but stimulated him to expand his range.
2068: They lent him for a few days to MGM in 1933 for his significant Hollywood debut in the successful musical film Dancing Lady.
2069: He wrote his agent, "I don't mind making another picture with her, but as for this 'team' idea, it's 'out!'
2070: The partnership, and the choreography of Astaire and Hermes Pan, helped make dancing an important element of the Hollywood film musical.
2071: Navarre has a separate statute of autonomy, a contentious arrangement designed during Spanish transition to democracy (the Amejoramiento, an 'upgrade' of its previous status during dictatorship).
2072: Questions of political, linguistic and cultural allegiance and identity are highly complex in Navarre.
2073: The majority of schools under the jurisdiction of the Basque education system use Basque as the primary medium of teaching.
2074: In contrast, the desire for greater autonomy or independence is particularly common among leftist Basque nationalists.
2075: They regard themselves as culturally and especially linguistically distinct from their surrounding neighbours.
2076: Miguel de Unamuno was a noted novelist and philosopher of the late 19th and the 20th century.
2077: In the words of the philosopher Daniel Dennett, "Darwin's dangerous idea" of evolution by natural selection is a "universal acid," which cannot be kept restricted to any vessel or container, as it soon leaks out, working its way into ever-wider surroundings.
2078: These conditions are: heritability, variation of type, and competition for limited resources.
2079: Herbert Spencer and the eugenics advocate Francis Galton's interpretation of natural selection as necessarily progressive, leading to supposed advances in intelligence and civilisation, became a justification for colonialism, eugenics, and social Darwinism.
2080: The racial idea as the basis of our state has already accomplished much in this respect."
2081: The most prominent example of evolutionary psychology, notably advanced in the early work of Noam Chomsky and later by Steven Pinker, is the hypothesis that the human brain has adapted to acquire the grammatical rules of natural language.
2082: He observed that organisms (pea plants) inherit traits by way of discrete "units of inheritance".
2083: Others think that genetic engineering will be used to make humans more resistant or completely immune to some diseases.
2084: It is believed by futurists that nanobot technology will allow humans to 'manipulate matter at the molecular and atomic scale.'
2085: In this context, now obsolete, an "engine" referred to a military machine, i.e., a mechanical contraption used in war (for example, a catapult).
2086: The six classic simple machines were known in the ancient Near East.
2087: The lever mechanism first appeared around 5,000 years ago in the Near East, where it was used in a simple balance scale, and to move large objects in ancient Egyptian technology.
2088: The screw, the last of the simple machines to be invented, first appeared in Mesopotamia during the Neo-Assyrian period (911-609) BC.
2089: Potential cures can be tested against these mouse models.
2090: In 2015 a virus was used to insert a healthy gene into the skin cells of a boy suffering from a rare skin disease, epidermolysis bullosa, in order to grow, and then graft healthy skin onto 80 percent of the boy's body which was affected by the illness.
2091: There are also concerns that the technology could be used not just for treatment, but for enhancement, modification or alteration of a human beings' appearance, adaptability, intelligence, character or behavior.
2092: He said that twin girls, Lulu and Nana, had been born a few weeks earlier.
2093: Currently, germline modification is banned in 40 countries.
2094: Bacteria are cheap, easy to grow, clonal, multiply quickly, relatively easy to transform and can be stored at -80 °C almost indefinitely.
2095: The five color theorem, which has a short elementary proof, states that five colors suffice to color a map and was proven in the late 19th century; however, proving that four colors suffice turned out to be significantly harder.
2096: It was the first major theorem to be proved using a computer.
2097: Additionally, any map that could potentially be a counterexample must have a portion that looks like one of these 1,936 maps.
2098: It was originally formulated in 1908, by Steinitz and Tietze.
2099: A variety V over a finite field with q elements has a finite number of rational points, as well as points over every finite field with qk elements containing that field.
2100: Originally conjectured by Henri Poincaré, the theorem concerns a space that locally looks like ordinary three-dimensional space but is connected, finite in size, and lacks any boundary (a closed 3-manifold).
2101: This development was roughly contemporaneous with work by Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell inaugurating a new philosophical method based on the analysis of language via modern logic (hence the term "analytic philosophy").
2102: Some philosophers, such as Richard Rorty and Simon Glendinning, argue that this "analytic–continental" divide is inimical to the discipline as a whole.
2103: Afterwards, analytic and continental philosophers differ on the importance and influence of subsequent philosophers on their respective traditions.
2104: Although, since analytic and continental philosophy have such starkly different views of philosophy after Kant, continental philosophy is also often understood in an extended sense to include any post-Kant philosophers or movements important to continental philosophy but not analytic philosophy.
2105: Thus continental philosophy tends toward historicism, where analytic philosophy tends to treat philosophy in terms of discrete problems, capable of being analyzed apart from their historical origins.
2106: The major orthodox schools arose sometime between the start of the Common Era and the Gupta Empire.
2107: Another example is the p-adic logarithm, the inverse function of the p-adic exponential.
2108: Carrying out the exponentiation can be done efficiently, but the discrete logarithm is believed to be very hard to calculate in some groups.
2109: Square roots of negative numbers can be discussed within the framework of complex numbers.
2110: In Ancient India, the knowledge of theoretical and applied aspects of square and square root was at least as old as the Sulba Sutras, dated around 800–500 BC (possibly much earlier).
2111: The letter jīm resembles the present square root shape.
2112: It defines an important concept of standard deviation used in probability theory and statistics.
2113: Six out of the nine Astaire–Rogers musicals became the biggest moneymakers for RKO; all of the films brought a certain prestige and artistry that all studios coveted at the time.
2114: This gave the illusion of an almost stationary camera filming an entire dance in a single shot.
2115: Astaire's style of dance sequences allowed the viewer to follow the dancers and choreography in their entirety.
2116: Astaire's second innovation involved the context of the dance; he was adamant that all song and dance routines be integral to the plotlines of the film.
2117: One would be a solo performance by Astaire, which he termed his "sock solo."
2118: I think Ginger Rogers was.
2119: He also founded the Chilean Trade Union Association to promote a union movement based on the social teachings of the Catholic Church.
2120: The historical presence of the San in Botswana is particularly evident in northern Botswana's Tsodilo Hills region.
2121: From the 1950s through to the 1990s, San communities switched to farming because of government-mandated modernisation programs.
2122: Certain San groups are one of 14 known extant "ancestral population clusters"; that is, "groups of populations with common genetic ancestry, who share ethnicity and similarities in both their culture and the properties of their languages".
2123: Representatives of San peoples in 2003 stated their preference of the use of such individual group names where possible over the use of the collective term San.
2124: I continued to use Bushman, and I was publicly corrected several times by the righteous.
2125: Gene structure and function, variation, and distribution are studied within the context of the cell, the organism (e.g. dominance), and within the context of a population.
2126: Genetic processes work in combination with an organism's environment and experiences to influence development and behavior, often referred to as nature versus nurture.
2127: The modern science of genetics, seeking to understand this process, began with the work of the Augustinian friar Gregor Mendel in the mid-19th century.
2128: His second law is the same as what Mendel published.
2129: A popular theory during the 19th century, and implied by Charles Darwin's 1859 On the Origin of Species, was blending inheritance: the idea that individuals inherit a smooth blend of traits from their parents.
2130: In his paper "Versuche über Pflanzenhybriden" ("Experiments on Plant Hybridization"), presented in 1865 to the Naturforschender Verein (Society for Research in Nature) in Brünn, Mendel traced the inheritance patterns of certain traits in pea plants and described them mathematically.
2131: As one of the officials of the Pharaoh, Djosèr, he probably designed and supervised the construction of the Pyramid of Djoser (the Step Pyramid) at Saqqara in Egypt around 2630–2611 BC.
2132: Kushite ancestors built speos during the Bronze Age between 3700 and 3250 BC.Bloomeries and blast furnaces were also created during the 7th centuries BC in Kush.
2133: Some of Archimedes' inventions as well as the Antikythera mechanism required sophisticated knowledge of differential gearing or epicyclic gearing, two key principles in machine theory that helped design the gear trains of the Industrial Revolution, and are still widely used today in diverse fields such as robotics and automotive engineering.
2134: The spinning wheel was also a precursor to the spinning jenny, which was a key development during the early Industrial Revolution in the 18th century.
2135: He described four automaton musicians, including drummers operated by a programmable drum machine, where they could be made to play different rhythms and different drum patterns.
2136: Aside from these professions, universities were not believed to have had much practical significance to technology.
2137: This could be the effect on the phenotype of the organism, where the gene is expressed or what other genes it interacts with.
2138: In a simple knockout a copy of the desired gene has been altered to make it non-functional.
2139: This allows the experimenter to analyse the defects caused by this mutation and thereby determine the role of particular genes.
2140: The simplest method, and the first to be used, is "alanine scanning", where every position in turn is mutated to the unreactive amino acid alanine.
2141: The process is much the same as that in knockout engineering, except that the construct is designed to increase the function of the gene, usually by providing extra copies of the gene or inducing synthesis of the protein more frequently.
2142: One way to do this is to replace the wild-type gene with a 'fusion' gene, which is a juxtaposition of the wild-type gene with a reporting element such as green fluorescent protein (GFP) that will allow easy visualisation of the products of the genetic modification.
2143: After nearly a century of effort by mathematicians, Grigori Perelman presented a proof of the conjecture in three papers made available in 2002 and 2003 on arXiv.
2144: Perelman completed this portion of the proof.
2145: Informally, it asks whether every problem whose solution can be quickly verified by a computer can also be quickly solved by a computer; it is widely conjectured that the answer is no.
2146: It has not been proven which one is false, but it is widely believed that the first conjecture is true and the second one is false.
2147: For instance, the Collatz conjecture, which concerns whether or not certain sequences of integers terminate, has been tested for all integers up to 1.2 × 1012 (over a trillion).
2148: That evidence may be of various kinds, such as verification of consequences of it or strong interconnections with known results.
2149: These religio-philosophical traditions were later grouped under the label Hinduism.
2150: Western scholars regard Hinduism as a fusion or synthesis of various Indian cultures and traditions, with diverse roots and no single founder.
2151: Indian philosophers developed a system of epistemological reasoning (pramana) and logic and investigated topics such as Ontology (metaphysics, Brahman-Atman, Sunyata-Anatta), reliable means of knowledge (epistemology, Pramanas), value system (axiology) and other topics.
2152: Later developments include the development of Tantra and Iranian-Islamic influences.
2153: Nyāya traditionally accepts four Pramanas as reliable means of gaining knowledge – Pratyakṣa (perception), Anumāṇa (inference), Upamāṇa (comparison and analogy) and Śabda (word, testimony of past or present reliable experts).
2154: This philosophy held that the universe was reducible to paramāṇu (atoms), which are indestructible (anitya), indivisible, and have a special kind of dimension, called “small” (aṇu).
2155: Most pocket calculators have a square root key.
2156: The time complexity for computing a square root with n digits of precision is equivalent to that of multiplying two n-digit numbers.
2157: Hilbert's problems are twenty-three problems in mathematics published by German mathematician David Hilbert in 1900.
2158: For other problems, such as the 5th, experts have traditionally agreed on a single interpretation, and a solution to the accepted interpretation has been given, but closely related unsolved problems exist.
2159: There are two problems that are not only unresolved but may in fact be unresolvable by modern standards.
2160: The other twenty-one problems have all received significant attention, and late into the twentieth century work on these problems was still considered to be of the greatest importance.
2161: She faked it an awful lot.
2162: In 1976, British talk-show host Sir Michael Parkinson asked Astaire who his favorite dancing partner was on Parkinson.
2163: Despite their success, Astaire was unwilling to have his career tied exclusively to any partnership.
2164: Throughout this period, Astaire continued to value the input of choreographic collaborators.
2165: They starred in Broadway Melody of 1940, in which they performed a celebrated extended dance routine to Cole Porter's "Begin the Beguine."
2166: He played alongside Bing Crosby in Holiday Inn (1942) and later Blue Skies (1946).
2167: Instead, the San Council's representative was adamant that no hurt or harm was caused to them or the San community with the manner in which (Die Burger) published the word 'boesman'."
2168: San kinship is comparable to Eskimo kinship, with the same set of terms as in European cultures, but also uses a name rule and an age rule.
2169: Children have no social duties besides playing, and leisure is very important to San of all ages.
2170: They make important family and group decisions and claim ownership of water holes and foraging areas.
2171: Droughts may last many months and waterholes may dry up.
2172: Into this hole is inserted a long hollow grass stem.
2173: William Bateson, a proponent of Mendel's work, coined the word genetics in 1905 (the adjective genetic, derived from the Greek word genesis—γένεσις, "origin", predates the noun and was first used in a biological sense in 1860).
2174: Over the next 11 years, she discovered that females only had the X chromosome and males had both X and Y chromosomes.
2175: James Watson and Francis Crick determined the structure of DNA in 1953, using the X-ray crystallography work of Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins that indicated DNA has a helical structure (i.e., shaped like a corkscrew).
2176: The structure also suggested a simple method for replication: if the strands are separated, new partner strands can be reconstructed for each based on the sequence of the old strand.
2177: In the following years, scientists tried to understand how DNA controls the process of protein production.
2178: With the newfound molecular understanding of inheritance came an explosion of research.
2179: Canal building was an important engineering work during the early phases of the Industrial Revolution.
2180: He was also a capable mechanical engineer and an eminent physicist.
2181: Smeaton also made mechanical improvements to the Newcomen steam engine.
2182: Samuel Morland, a mathematician and inventor who worked on pumps, left notes at the Vauxhall Ordinance Office on a steam pump design that Thomas Savery read.
2183: Iron merchant Thomas Newcomen, who built the first commercial piston steam engine in 1712, was not known to have any scientific training.
2184: These innovations lowered the cost of iron, making horse railways and iron bridges practical.
2185: Expression studies aim to discover where and when specific proteins are produced.
2186: Some genes do not work well in bacteria, so yeast, insect cells or mammalians cells can also be used.
2187: Certain genetically modified microbes can also be used in biomining and bioremediation, due to their ability to extract heavy metals from their environment and incorporate them into compounds that are more easily recoverable.
2188: Fungal and virus resistant crops have also been developed or are in development.
2189: In 2016 Salmon have been genetically modified with growth hormones to reach normal adult size much faster.
2190: Soybeans and canola have been genetically modified to produce more healthy oils.
2191: One method of proof, applicable when there are only a finite number of cases that could lead to counterexamples, is known as "brute force": in this approach, all possible cases are considered and shown not to give counterexamples.
2192: The continuum hypothesis, which tries to ascertain the relative cardinality of certain infinite sets, was eventually shown to be independent from the generally accepted set of Zermelo–Fraenkel axioms of set theory.
2193: Few number theorists doubt that the Riemann hypothesis is true.
2194: The logistic map is a polynomial mapping, often cited as an archetypal example of how chaotic behaviour can arise from very simple non-linear dynamical equations.
2195: Kepler proved that it is the limit of the ratio of consecutive Fibonacci numbers.
2196: For two reasons this representation may cause problems.
2197: Later Vaiśeṣikas (Śrīdhara and Udayana and Śivāditya) added one more category abhava (non-existence).
2198: Because of their focus on textual study and interpretation, Mīmāṃsā also developed theories of philology and the philosophy of language which influenced other Indian schools.
2199: The distinguishing features of Jain philosophy include a mind-body dualism, denial of a creative and omnipotent God, karma, an eternal and uncreated universe, non-violence, the theory of the multiple facets of truth, and morality based on liberation of the soul.
2200: It has also been called a model of philosophical liberalism for its insistence that truth is relative and multifaceted and for its willingness to accommodate all possible view-points of the rival philosophies.
2201: Cārvāka philosophers like Brihaspati were extremely critical of other schools of philosophy of the time.
2202: It is the dominant philosophical tradition in Tibet and Southeast Asian countries like Sri Lanka and Burma.
2203: Hilbert lived for 12 years after Kurt Gödel published his theorem, but does not seem to have written any formal response to Gödel's work.
2204: In discussing his opinion that every mathematical problem should have a solution, Hilbert allows for the possibility that the solution could be a proof that the original problem is impossible.
2205: The first of these was proved by Bernard Dwork; a completely different proof of the first two, via ℓ-adic cohomology, was given by Alexander Grothendieck.
2206: However, the Weil conjectures were, in their scope, more like a single Hilbert problem, and Weil never intended them as a programme for all mathematics.
2207: Erdős often offered monetary rewards; the size of the reward depended on the perceived difficulty of the problem.
2208: At least in the mainstream media, the de facto 21st century analogue of Hilbert's problems is the list of seven Millennium Prize Problems chosen during 2000 by the Clay Mathematics Institute.
2209: The latter film featured "Puttin' On the Ritz", an innovative song-and-dance routine indelibly associated with him.
2210: The first film, You'll Never Get Rich (1941), catapulted Hayworth to stardom.
2211: It featured a duet to Kern's "I'm Old Fashioned," which became the centerpiece of Jerome Robbins's 1983 New York City Ballet tribute to Astaire.
2212: Astaire choreographed this film alone and achieved modest box office success.
2213: The fantasy Yolanda and the Thief (1945) featured an avant-garde surrealistic ballet.
2214: Always insecure and believing his career was beginning to falter, Astaire surprised his audiences by announcing his retirement during the production of his next film Blue Skies (1946).
2215: Early spring is the hardest season: a hot dry period following the cool, dry winter.
2216: Women gather fruit, berries, tubers, bush onions, and other plant materials for the band's consumption.
2217: Depending on location, the San consume 18 to 104 species, including grasshoppers, beetles, caterpillars, moths, butterflies, and termites.
2218: These haplogroups are specific sub-groups of haplogroups A and B, the two earliest branches on the human Y-chromosome tree.
2219: The most divergent (oldest) mitochondrial haplogroup, L0d, has been identified at its highest frequencies in the southern African San groups.
2220: The San have been particularly affected by encroachment by majority peoples and non-indigenous farmers onto land traditionally occupied by San people.
2221: One important development was chain-termination DNA sequencing in 1977 by Frederick Sanger.
2222: In his experiments studying the trait for flower color, Mendel observed that the flowers of each pea plant were either purple or white—but never an intermediate between the two colors.
2223: Many species, including humans, have this pattern of inheritance.
2224: When organisms are heterozygous at a gene, often one allele is called dominant as its qualities dominate the phenotype of the organism, while the other allele is called recessive as its qualities recede and are not observed.
2225: Often a "+" symbol is used to mark the usual, non-mutant allele for a gene.
2226: One of the common diagrams used to predict the result of cross-breeding is the Punnett square.
2227: With the development of the high pressure steam engine, the power to weight ratio of steam engines made practical steamboats and locomotives possible.
2228: The Industrial Revolution created a demand for machinery with metal parts, which led to the development of several machine tools.
2229: Precision machining techniques were developed in the first half of the 19th century.
2230: The United States census of 1850 listed the occupation of "engineer" for the first time with a count of 2,000.
2231: In 1890, there were 6,000 engineers in civil, mining, mechanical and electrical.
2232: The foundations of electrical engineering in the 1800s included the experiments of Alessandro Volta, Michael Faraday, Georg Ohm and others and the invention of the electric telegraph in 1816 and the electric motor in 1872.
2233: Gene transfer through viral vectors has been proposed as a means of controlling invasive species as well as vaccinating threatened fauna from disease.
2234: Applications of genetic engineering in conservation are thus far mostly theoretical and have yet to be put into practice.
2235: The Asilomar meeting recommended a set of voluntary guidelines regarding the use of recombinant technology.
2236: One hundred and fifty-seven countries are members of the Protocol and many use it as a reference point for their own regulations.
2237: Most countries that do not allow GMO cultivation do permit research.
2238: Emily Marden, Risk and Regulation: U.S. Regulatory Policy on Genetically Modified Food and Agriculture, 44 B.C.L. Rev. 733 (2003) The European Union by contrast has possibly the most stringent GMO regulations in the world.
2239: For example, the two representations 0.999... and 1 are equivalent in the sense that they represent the same number.
2240: Using computers and supercomputers, some of the mathematical constants, including π, e, and the square root of 2, have been computed to more than one hundred billion digits.
2241: Some constants differ so much from the usual kind that a new notation has been invented to represent them reasonably.
2242: Sometimes, the symbol representing a constant is a whole word.
2243: 0 (zero) is a number, and the numerical digit used to represent that number in numerals.
2244: Names for the number 0 in English include zero, nought (UK), naught (US; ), nil, or—in contexts where at least one adjacent digit distinguishes it from the letter "O"—oh or o.
2245: Later Buddhist philosophical traditions developed complex phenomenological psychologies termed 'Abhidharma'.
2246: This tradition contributed to what has been called an "epistemological turn" in Indian philosophy.
2247: Important exponents of Buddhist modernism include Anagarika Dharmapala (1864–1933) and the American convert Henry Steel Olcott, the Chinese modernists Taixu (1890–1947) and Yin Shun (1906–2005), Zen scholar D.T. Suzuki, and the Tibetan Gendün Chöphel (1903–1951).
2248: Anthropology is the scientific study of humanity, concerned with human behavior, human biology, cultures and societies, in both the present and past, including past human species.
2249: Biological or physical anthropology studies the biological development of humans.
2250: Various short-lived organizations of anthropologists had already been formed.
2251: The Riemann hypothesis is noteworthy for its appearance on the list of Hilbert problems, Smale's list, the list of Millennium Prize Problems, and even the Weil conjectures, in its geometric guise.
2252: 1931, 1936 3rd Given any two polyhedra of equal volume, is it always possible to cut the first into finitely many polyhedral pieces that can be reassembled to yield the second?
2253: — 12th Extend the Kronecker–Weber theorem on Abelian extensions of the rational numbers to any base number field.
2254: 1959 15th Rigorous foundation of Schubert's enumerative calculus.
2255: 1927 18th (a) Is there a polyhedron that admits only an anisohedral tiling in three dimensions?(b) What is the densest sphere packing?
2256: A number is a mathematical object used to count, measure, and label.
2257: Both of these films revived Astaire's popularity and in 1950 he starred in two musicals.
2258: While Three Little Words did quite well at the box office, Let's Dance was a financial disappointment.
2259: But because of its high cost, it failed to make a profit on its first release.
2260: Then, his wife Phyllis became ill and suddenly died of lung cancer.
2261: Daddy Long Legs only did moderately well at the box office.
2262: Similarly, Astaire's next project – his final musical at MGM, Silk Stockings (1957), in which he co-starred with Cyd Charisse, also lost money at the box office.
2263: Loss of land is a major contributor to the problems facing Botswana's indigenous people, including especially the San's eviction from the Central Kalahari Game Reserve.
2264: This would award royalties to the San for the benefits of their indigenous knowledge.
2265: Van der Post grew up in South Africa, and had a respectful lifelong fascination with native African cultures.
2266: Driven by a lifelong fascination with this "vanished tribe", Van der Post published a 1958 book about this expedition, entitled The Lost World of the Kalahari.
2267: His early film The Hunters, released in 1957, shows a giraffe hunt.
2268: His sister Elizabeth Marshall Thomas wrote several books and numerous articles about the San, based in part on her experiences living with these people when their culture was still intact.
2269: Some genes do not assort independently, demonstrating genetic linkage, a topic discussed later in this article.)
2270: Another gene, however, controls whether the flowers have color at all or are white.
2271: Many traits are not discrete features (e.g. purple or white flowers) but are instead continuous features (e.g. human height and skin color).
2272: The degree to which an organism's genes contribute to a complex trait is called heritability.
2273: DNA is composed of a chain of nucleotides, of which there are four types: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T).
2274: Viruses cannot reproduce without a host and are unaffected by many genetic processes, so tend not to be considered living organisms.
2275: Aeronautical engineering deals with aircraft design process design while aerospace engineering is a more modern term that expands the reach of the discipline by including spacecraft design.
2276: Historically, naval engineering and mining engineering were major branches.
2277: As a result, many engineers continue to learn new material throughout their careers.
2278: It is generally insufficient to build a technically successful product, rather, it must also meet further requirements.
2279: Genrich Altshuller, after gathering statistics on a large number of patents, suggested that compromises are at the heart of "low-level" engineering designs, while at a higher level the best design is one which eliminates the core contradiction causing the problem.
2280: Testing ensures that products will perform as expected.
2281: One of the key issues concerning regulators is whether GM products should be labeled.
2282: These controversies have led to litigation, international trade disputes, and protests, and to restrictive regulation of commercial products in some countries.
2283: Although doubts have been raised, economically most studies have found growing GM crops to be beneficial to farmers.
2284: Many of the environmental impacts regarding GM crops may take many years to be understood and are also evident in conventional agriculture practices.
2285: Few films have informed audiences about genetic engineering, with the exception of the 1978 The Boys from Brazil and the 1993 Jurassic Park, both of which made use of a lesson, a demonstration, and a clip of scientific film.
2286: Nanotechnology, also shortened to nanotech, is the use of matter on an atomic, molecular, and supramolecular scale for industrial purposes.
2287: For the simple notion of lacking, the words nothing and none are often used.
2288: It is often called oh in the context of telephone numbers.
2289: The symbol nfr, meaning beautiful, was also used to indicate the base level in drawings of tombs and pyramids, and distances were measured relative to the base line as being above or below this line.
2290: The Babylonian placeholder was not a true zero because it was not used alone, nor was it used at the end of a number.
2291: By AD 150, Ptolemy, influenced by Hipparchus and the Babylonians, was using a symbol for zero in his work on mathematical astronomy called the Syntaxis Mathematica, also known as the Almagest.
2292: This use was repeated in AD525 in an equivalent table, that was translated via the Latin nulla or "none" by Dionysius Exiguus, alongside Roman numerals.
2293: When slavery was abolished in France in 1848, the Société was abandoned.
2294: For them, the publication of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species was the epiphany of everything they had begun to suspect.
2295: There was an immediate rush to bring it into the social sciences.
2296: His definition now became "the study of the human group, considered as a whole, in its details, and in relation to the rest of nature".
2297: He discovered the speech center of the human brain, today called Broca's area after him.
2298: The last two volumes were published posthumously.
2299: More universally, individual numbers can be represented by symbols, called numerals; for example, "5" is a numeral that represents the number five.
2300: Calculations with numbers are done with arithmetical operations, the most familiar being addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation.
2301: Gilsdorf, Thomas E. Introduction to Cultural Mathematics: With Case Studies in the Otomies and Incas, John Wiley & Sons, Feb 24, 2012.Restivo, S. Mathematics in Society and History, Springer Science & Business Media, Nov 30, 1992.
2302: During the 19th century, mathematicians began to develop many different abstractions which share certain properties of numbers, and may be seen as extending the concept.
2303: A tallying system has no concept of place value (as in modern decimal notation), which limits its representation of large numbers.
2304: Brahmagupta's Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta is the first book that mentions zero as a number, hence Brahmagupta is usually considered the first to formulate the concept of zero.
2305: The first of these programs, 1958's An Evening with Fred Astaire, won nine Emmy Awards, including "Best Single Performance by an Actor" and "Most Outstanding Single Program of the Year."
2306: The choice had a controversial backlash because many believed his dancing in the special was not the type of "acting" for which the award was designed.
2307: They restored the original videotape, transferring its contents to a modern format and filling in gaps where the tape had deteriorated with kinescope footage.
2308: Astaire appeared in non-dancing roles in three other films and several television series from 1957 to 1969.
2309: Astaire's dance partner was Petula Clark, who played his character's skeptical daughter.
2310: Astaire continued to act in the 1970s.
2311: This was reviewed by Lawrence Van Gelder for the New York Times, who said that the film "constitutes an act of preservation and a requiem".
2312: The BBC's The Life of Mammals (2003) series includes video footage of an indigenous San of the Kalahari desert undertaking a persistence hunt of a kudu through harsh desert conditions.
2313: Because of their similarities, the San works may illustrate the reasons for ancient cave paintings.
2314: The film was directed by Jamie Uys, who returned to the San a decade later with The Gods Must Be Crazy, which proved to be an international hit.
2315: James A. Michener's The Covenant (1980), is a work of historical fiction centered on South Africa.
2316: Norman Rush's 1991 novel Mating features an encampment of Basarwa near the (imaginary) Botswana town where the main action is set.
2317: This structure of DNA is the physical basis for inheritance: DNA replication duplicates the genetic information by splitting the strands and using each strand as a template for synthesis of a new partner strand.
2318: These DNA strands are often extremely long; the largest human chromosome, for example, is about 247 million base pairs in length.
2319: DNA is most often found in the nucleus of cells, but Ruth Sager helped in the discovery of nonchromosomal genes found outside of the nucleus.
2320: While haploid organisms have only one copy of each chromosome, most animals and many plants are diploid, containing two of each chromosome and thus two copies of every gene.
2321: In humans and many other animals, the Y chromosome contains the gene that triggers the development of the specifically male characteristics.
2322: This process, called mitosis, is the simplest form of reproduction and is the basis for asexual reproduction.
2323: As well as the typical business application software there are a number of computer aided applications (computer-aided technologies) specifically for engineering.
2324: It enables engineers to create 3D models, 2D drawings, and schematics of their designs.
2325: Access and distribution of all this information is generally organized with the use of product data management software.
2326: By its very nature engineering has interconnections with society, culture and human behavior.
2327: Engineering projects can be subject to controversy.
2328: Engineering is a key driver of innovation and human development.
2329: This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale, and so the definition shifted from a particular technological goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter which occur below the given size threshold.
2330: The associated research and applications are equally diverse, ranging from extensions of conventional device physics to completely new approaches based upon molecular self-assembly, from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale.
2331: The term "nano-technology" was first used by Norio Taniguchi in 1974, though it was not widely known.
2332: The emergence of nanotechnology as a field in the 1980s occurred through convergence of Drexler's theoretical and public work, which developed and popularized a conceptual framework for nanotechnology, and high-visibility experimental advances that drew additional wide-scale attention to the prospects of atomic control of matter.
2333: The microscope's developers Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer at IBM Zurich Research Laboratory received a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1986.
2334: C60 was not initially described as nanotechnology; the term was used regarding subsequent work with related carbon nanotubes (sometimes called graphene tubes or Bucky tubes) which suggested potential applications for nanoscale electronics and devices.
2335: The Lokavibhāga, a Jain text on cosmology surviving in a medieval Sanskrit translation of the Prakrit original, which is internally dated to AD 458 (Saka era 380), uses a decimal place-value system, including a zero.
2336: In 813, al-Khwarizmi used the Hindu numerals in his astronomical tables."
2337: This book was later translated into Latin in the 12th century under the title Algoritmi de numero Indorum.
2338: I pursued my study in depth and learned the give-and-take of disputation.
2339: I have striven to compose this book in its entirety as understandably as I could, dividing it into fifteen chapters.
2340: The nine Indian figures are: 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1.
2341: He stresses that the data of comparison must be empirical, gathered by experimentation.
2342: Waitz was influential among the British ethnologists.
2343: Representatives from the French Société were present, though not Broca.
2344: Previously Edward had referred to himself as an ethnologist; subsequently, an anthropologist.
2345: One notable exception was the Berlin Society for Anthropology, Ethnology, and Prehistory (1869) founded by Rudolph Virchow, known for his vituperative attacks on the evolutionists.
2346: The major theorists belonged to these organizations.
2347: In a similar vein, Pāṇini (5th century BC) used the null (zero) operator in the Ashtadhyayi, an early example of an algebraic grammar for the Sanskrit language (also see Pingala).
2348: By 130 AD, Ptolemy, influenced by Hipparchus and the Babylonians, was using a symbol for 0 (a small circle with a long overbar) within a sexagesimal numeral system otherwise using alphabetic Greek numerals.
2349: Diophantus' previous reference was discussed more explicitly by Indian mathematician Brahmagupta, in Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta in 628, who used negative numbers to produce the general form quadratic formula that remains in use today.
2350: At the same time, the Chinese were indicating negative numbers by drawing a diagonal stroke through the right-most non-zero digit of the corresponding positive number's numeral.
2351: Classical Greek and Indian mathematicians made studies of the theory of rational numbers, as part of the general study of number theory.
2352: The concept of decimal fractions is closely linked with decimal place-value notation; the two seem to have developed in tandem.
2353: In the second compilation, aged seventy-six, he performed brief dance linking sequences with Kelly, his last dance performances in a musical film.
2354: In 1978, he co-starred with Helen Hayes in a well received television film A Family Upside Down in which they played an elderly couple coping with failing health.
2355: Astaire asked his agent to obtain a role for him on Galactica because of his grandchildren's interest in the series and the producers were delighted at the opportunity to create an entire episode to feature him.
2356: Long after the photography for the solo dance number "I Want to Be a Dancin' Man" was completed for the 1952 feature The Belle of New York, it was decided that Astaire's humble costume and the threadbare stage set were inadequate and the entire sequence was reshot.
2357: Frame for frame, the two performances are identical, down to the subtlest gesture.
2358: His was a uniquely recognizable dance style that greatly influenced the American Smooth style of ballroom dance and set standards against which subsequent film dance musicals would be judged.
2359: In 2007, David Gilman published The Devil's Breath.
2360: The fiancé of the protagonist of The No.
2361: The Germanic peoples were a historical group of people living in Central Europe and Scandinavia.
2362: In discussions of the Roman period, the Germanic peoples are sometimes referred to as Germani or ancient Germans, although many scholars consider the second term problematic, since it suggests identity with modern Germans.
2363: In contrast, Roman authors first described Germanic peoples near the Rhine at the time the Roman Empire established its dominance in that region.
2364: Roman efforts to integrate the large area between Rhine and Elbe ended around 16 CE, following the major Roman defeat at the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest in 9 CE.
2365: Eukaryotic organisms often use sexual reproduction to generate offspring that contain a mixture of genetic material inherited from two different parents.
2366: Some bacteria can undergo conjugation, transferring a small circular piece of DNA to another bacterium.
2367: In this way new combinations of genes can occur in the offspring of a mating pair.
2368: During crossover, chromosomes exchange stretches of DNA, effectively shuffling the gene alleles between the chromosomes.
2369: The first cytological demonstration of crossing over was performed by Harriet Creighton and Barbara McClintock in 1931.
2370: For an arbitrarily long distance, the probability of crossover is high enough that the inheritance of the genes is effectively uncorrelated.
2371: There are many negative economic and political issues that this can cause, as well as ethical issues.
2372: Scientists may also have to complete engineering tasks, such as designing experimental apparatus or building prototypes.
2373: First, it often deals with areas in which the basic physics or chemistry are well understood, but the problems themselves are too complex to solve in an exact manner.
2374: The former equates an understanding into a mathematical principle while the latter measures variables involved and creates technology.
2375: A physicist would typically require additional and relevant training.
2376: An example of this is the use of numerical approximations to the Navier–Stokes equations to describe aerodynamic flow over an aircraft, or the use of the Finite element method to calculate the stresses in complex components.
2377: Decades later, advances in multi-gate technology enabled the scaling of metal–oxide–semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) devices down to nano-scale levels smaller than 20 nm gate length, starting with the FinFET (fin field-effect transistor), a three-dimensional, non-planar, double-gate MOSFET.
2378: Controversies emerged regarding the definitions and potential implications of nanotechnologies, exemplified by the Royal Society's report on nanotechnology.
2379: These products are limited to bulk applications of nanomaterials and do not involve atomic control of matter.
2380: It was based on gate-all-around (GAA) FinFET technology.
2381: This covers both current work and concepts that are more advanced.
2382: The lower limit is set by the size of atoms (hydrogen has the smallest atoms, which are approximately a quarter of a nm kinetic diameter) since nanotechnology must build its devices from atoms and molecules.
2383: 254–255 include 0 as a natural number, in which case it is the only natural number that is not positive.
2384: As a value or a number, zero is not the same as the digit zero, used in numeral systems with positional notation.
2385: The number 0 may or may not be considered a natural number, but it is an integer, and hence a rational number and a real number (as well as an algebraic number and a complex number).
2386: It cannot be prime because it has an infinite number of factors, and cannot be composite because it cannot be expressed as a product of prime numbers (as 0 must always be one of the factors).
2387: These rules apply for any real or complex number x, unless otherwise stated.
2388: The cardinality function, applied to the empty set, returns the empty set as a value, thereby assigning it 0 elements.
2389: Practical anthropology, the use of anthropological knowledge and technique to solve specific problems, has arrived; for example, the presence of buried victims might stimulate the use of a forensic archaeologist to recreate the final scene.
2390: This has been particularly prominent in the United States, from Boas' arguments against 19th-century racial ideology, through Margaret Mead's advocacy for gender equality and sexual liberation, to current criticisms of post-colonial oppression and promotion of multiculturalism.
2391: In Great Britain and the Commonwealth countries, the British tradition of social anthropology tends to dominate.
2392: Cultural anthropology is the comparative study of the manifold ways in which people make sense of the world around them, while social anthropology is the study of the relationships among individuals and groups.
2393: There is no hard-and-fast distinction between them, and these categories overlap to a considerable degree.
2394: This project is often accommodated in the field of ethnography.
2395: However, Pythagoras believed in the absoluteness of numbers, and could not accept the existence of irrational numbers.
2396: By the 17th century, mathematicians generally used decimal fractions with modern notation.
2397: In 1872, the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil E. Kossak), Eduard Heine, Georg Cantor, and Richard Dedekind was brought about.
2398: Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of real numbers, separating all rational numbers into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
2399: Hence it was necessary to consider the wider set of algebraic numbers (all solutions to polynomial equations).
2400: Aristotle defined the traditional Western notion of mathematical infinity.
2401: He notes Astaire's dance style was consistent in subsequent films made with or without the assistance of Pan.
2402: However, this was almost always confined to the area of extended fantasy sequences, or "dream ballets".
2403: Later in life, he admitted, "I had to do most of it myself."
2404: Many dance routines were built around a "gimmick," like dancing on the walls in Royal Wedding or dancing with his shadows in Swing Time.
2405: They would work with a rehearsal pianist (often the composer Hal Borne) who in turn would communicate modifications to the musical orchestrators.
2406: With all the preparation completed, the actual shooting would go quickly, conserving costs.
2407: In the 3rd century the Germanic-speaking Goths dominated the Pontic Steppe, outside Germania, and launched a series of sea expeditions into the Balkans and Anatolia as far as Cyprus.
2408: Archaeology instead shows a complex society and economy throughout Germania.
2409: Traditionally, the Germanic peoples have been seen as possessing a law dominated by the concepts of feuding and blood compensation.
2410: The ancient Germanic-speaking peoples probably shared a common poetic tradition, alliterative verse, and later Germanic peoples also shared legends originating in the Migration Period.
2411: Even the language from which it derives is a subject of dispute, with proposals of Germanic, Celtic, and Latin, and Illyrian origins.
2412: Regardless of its language of origin, the name was transmitted to the Romans via Celtic speakers.
2413: The specific sequence of amino acids results in a unique three-dimensional structure for that protein, and the three-dimensional structures of proteins are related to their functions.
2414: Protein structure is dynamic; the protein hemoglobin bends into slightly different forms as it facilitates the capture, transport, and release of oxygen molecules within mammalian blood.
2415: For example, sickle-cell anemia is a human genetic disease that results from a single base difference within the coding region for the β-globin section of hemoglobin, causing a single amino acid change that changes hemoglobin's physical properties.
2416: Some DNA sequences are transcribed into RNA but are not translated into protein products—such RNA molecules are called non-coding RNA.
2417: An interesting example is the coat coloration of the Siamese cat.
2418: But these dark hair-producing proteins are sensitive to temperature (i.e. have a mutation causing temperature-sensitivity) and denature in higher-temperature environments, failing to produce dark-hair pigment in areas where the cat has a higher body temperature.
2419: Engineers stress innovation and invention.
2420: Since a design has to be realistic and functional, it must have its geometry, dimensions, and characteristics data defined.
2421: Thus they studied mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and mechanics.
2422: Modern medicine can replace several of the body's functions through the use of artificial organs and can significantly alter the function of the human body through artificial devices such as, for example, brain implants and pacemakers.
2423: Both fields provide solutions to real world problems.
2424: Engineering management or "Management engineering" is a specialized field of management concerned with engineering practice or the engineering industry sector.
2425: To put that scale in another context, the comparative size of a nanometer to a meter is the same as that of a marble to the size of the earth.
2426: In the "bottom-up" approach, materials and devices are built from molecular components which assemble themselves chemically by principles of molecular recognition.
2427: One example is the increase in surface area to volume ratio altering mechanical, thermal and catalytic properties of materials.
2428: The catalytic activity of nanomaterials also opens potential risks in their interaction with biomaterials.
2429: The concept of molecular recognition is especially important: molecules can be designed so that a specific configuration or arrangement is favored due to non-covalent intermolecular forces.
2430: Such bottom-up approaches should be capable of producing devices in parallel and be much cheaper than top-down methods, but could potentially be overwhelmed as the size and complexity of the desired assembly increases.
2431: In abstract algebra, 0 is commonly used to denote a zero element, which is a neutral element for addition (if defined on the structure under consideration) and an absorbing element for multiplication (if defined).
2432: For some quantities, the zero level is naturally distinguished from all other levels, whereas for others it is more or less arbitrarily chosen.
2433: It has been shown that a cluster of four neutrons may be stable enough to be considered an atom in its own right.
2434: For example, the elements of an array are numbered starting from 0 in C, so that for an array of n items the sequence of array indices runs from 0 to .
2435: In databases, it is possible for a field not to have a value.
2436: For text fields this is not blank nor the empty string.
2437: Participant observation is one of the foundational methods of social and cultural anthropology.
2438: The study of kinship and social organization is a central focus of sociocultural anthropology, as kinship is a human universal.
2439: Ethnography views first-hand experience and social context as important.
2440: Ethnomusicology can be used in a wide variety of fields, such as teaching, politics, cultural anthropology etc.
2441: Economic Anthropology remains, for the most part, focused upon exchange.
2442: The first of these areas was concerned with the "pre-capitalist" societies that were subject to evolutionary "tribal" stereotypes.
2443: But the next major advance in the theory was made by Georg Cantor; in 1895 he published a book about his new set theory, introducing, among other things, transfinite numbers and formulating the continuum hypothesis.
2444: A modern geometrical version of infinity is given by projective geometry, which introduces "ideal points at infinity", one for each spatial direction.
2445: The idea of the graphic representation of complex numbers had appeared, however, as early as 1685, in Wallis's De algebra tractatus.
2446: In 240 BC, Eratosthenes used the Sieve of Eratosthenes to quickly isolate prime numbers.
2447: Other results concerning the distribution of the primes include Euler's proof that the sum of the reciprocals of the primes diverges, and the Goldbach conjecture, which claims that any sufficiently large even number is the sum of two primes.
2448: Traditionally, the sequence of natural numbers started with 1 (0 was not even considered a number for the Ancient Greeks.)
2449: He will not even go to see his rushes... He always thinks he is no good."
2450: Michael Kidd, Astaire's co-choreographer on the 1953 film The Band Wagon, found that his own concern about the emotional motivation behind the dance was not shared by Astaire.
2451: Let's add the looks later.' "
2452: Irving Berlin considered Astaire the equal of any male interpreter of his songs—"as good as Jolson, Crosby or Sinatra, not necessarily because of his voice, but for his conception of projecting a song.
2453: In his heyday, Astaire was referenced in lyrics of songwriters Cole Porter, Lorenz Hart and Eric Maschwitz and continues to inspire modern songwriters.
2454: During 1952, Astaire recorded The Astaire Story, a four-volume album with a quintet led by Oscar Peterson.
2455: By late antiquity, only peoples near the Rhine, especially the Franks, and sometimes the Alemanni, were called Germani by Latin or Greek writers.
2456: While Roman authors did not consistently exclude Celtic speaking-people, or treat the Germanic peoples as the name of a people, this new definition, by using Germanic language as the main criterion, understood the Germani as a people or nation with a stable group identity linked to language.
2457: Some scholars studying the Early Middle Ages now stress the question of whether the Germanic peoples saw themselves as an ethnic unity, while others point to the existence of Germanic languages as a historical fact that can be used to identify Germanic peoples, regardless of whether they saw themselves as "Germanic".
2458: For such reasons, Goffart argues that the term Germanic should be avoided entirely in favor of "barbarian" except in the linguistic sense, and historians such as Walter Pohl have also called for the term to be avoided or used with careful explanation.
2459: In Caesar's account, the clearest defining characteristic of the Germani people was that they lived east of the Rhine, opposite Gaul on the west side, an observation he made with historical digressions in his writing.
2460: Tacitus was at times unsure whether a people were Germanic or not, expressing his uncertainty about the Bastarnae, who he says looked like Sarmatians but spoke like the Germani, about the Osi and the Cotini, and about the Aesti, who were like Suebi but spoke a different language.
2461: After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, knowledge of Greek conceptions of the world deteriorated in Western Europe during the early centuries (400 to 1000 CE) of the Middle Ages, but was preserved in the Muslim world during the Islamic Golden Age.
2462: Modern science is typically divided into three major branches that consist of the natural sciences (e.g., biology, chemistry, and physics), which study nature in the broadest sense; the social sciences (e.g., economics, psychology, and sociology), which study individuals and societies; and the formal sciences (e.g., logic, mathematics, and theoretical computer science), which deal with symbols governed by rules.
2463: New knowledge in science is advanced by research from scientists who are motivated by curiosity about the world and a desire to solve problems.
2464: In particular, it was the type of knowledge that people can communicate to each other and share.
2465: However, no consistent conscious distinction was made between knowledge of such things, which are true in every community, and other types of communal knowledge, such as mythologies and legal systems.
2466: They even developed an official calendar that contained twelve months, thirty days each, and five days at the end of the year.
2467: Engineers specializing in change management must have in-depth knowledge of the application of industrial and organizational psychology principles and methods.
2468: Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, as opposed to the natural intelligence displayed by humans or animals.
2469: AI research has tried and discarded many different approaches during its lifetime, including simulating the brain, modeling human problem solving, formal logic, large databases of knowledge and imitating animal behavior.
2470: The traditional goals of AI research include reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, learning, natural language processing, perception and the ability to move and manipulate objects.
2471: AI also draws upon computer science, psychology, linguistics, philosophy, and many other fields.
2472: The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity.
2473: Manufacturing in the context of productive nanosystems is not related to, and should be clearly distinguished from, the conventional technologies used to manufacture nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes and nanoparticles.
2474: It is hoped that developments in nanotechnology will make possible their construction by some other means, perhaps using biomimetic principles.
2475: In general it is very difficult to assemble devices on the atomic scale, as one has to position atoms on other atoms of comparable size and stickiness.
2476: This led to an exchange of letters in the ACS publication Chemical & Engineering News in 2003.
2477: They have constructed at least three distinct molecular devices whose motion is controlled from the desktop with changing voltage: a nanotube nanomotor, a molecular actuator, and a nanoelectromechanical relaxation oscillator.
2478: Nanomaterials with fast ion transport are related also to nanoionics and nanoelectronics.
2479: Any computation including a null value delivers a null result.
2480: In Formula One, if the reigning World Champion no longer competes in Formula One in the year following their victory in the title race, 0 is given to one of the drivers of the team that the reigning champion won the title with.
2481: Typewriters originally made no distinction in shape between O and 0; some models did not even have a separate key for the digit 0.
2482: The digit 0 with a dot in the center seems to have originated as an option on IBM 3270 displays and has continued with some modern computer typefaces such as Andalé Mono, and in some airline reservation systems.
2483: 1 (one, also called unit, and unity) is a number and a numerical digit used to represent that number in numerals.
2484: In conventions of sign where zero is considered neither positive nor negative, 1 is the first and smallest positive integer.
2485: Why are those working in development so willing to disregard history and the lessons it might offer?
2486: Within kinship you have two different families.
2487: Anthropology engages often with feminists from non-Western traditions, whose perspectives and experiences can differ from those of white feminists of Europe, America, and elsewhere.
2488: Political anthropology developed as a discipline concerned primarily with politics in stateless societies, a new development started from the 1960s, and is still unfolding: anthropologists started increasingly to study more "complex" social settings in which the presence of states, bureaucracies and markets entered both ethnographic accounts and analysis of local phenomena.
2489: Secondly, anthropologists slowly started to develop a disciplinary concern with states and their institutions (and on the relationship between formal and informal political institutions).
2490: It is sometimes grouped with sociocultural anthropology, and sometimes considered part of material culture.
2491: In this base 10 system, the rightmost digit of a natural number has a place value of 1, and every other digit has a place value ten times that of the place value of the digit to its right.
2492: Negative numbers are usually written with a negative sign (a minus sign).
2493: Here the letter Z comes .
2494: Fractions can be greater than, less than, or equal to 1 and can also be positive, negative, or 0.
2495: The following paragraph will focus primarily on positive real numbers.
2496: Thus, for example, one half is 0.5, one fifth is 0.2, one-tenth is 0.1, and one fiftieth is 0.02.
2497: Bogart began acting in Broadway shows, beginning his career in motion pictures with Up the River (1930) for Fox and appeared in supporting roles for the next decade, sometimes portraying gangsters.
2498: Bogart's private detectives, Sam Spade (in The Maltese Falcon) and Phillip Marlowe (in 1946's The Big Sleep), became the models for detectives in other noir films.
2499: Soon after the principal photography for The Big Sleep (1946, their second film together), he filed for divorce from his third wife and married Bacall.
2500: He reprised those unsettled, unstable characters as a World War II naval-vessel commander in The Caine Mutiny (1954), which was a critical and commercial hit and earned him another Best Actor nomination.
2501: The name "Bogart" derives from the Dutch surname, "Bogaert".
2502: Maud was an Episcopalian of English heritage, and a descendant of Mayflower passenger John Howland.
2503: The Upper Danube served as a southern border.
2504: It is unclear if these Germani spoke a Germanic language, and they may have been Celtic speakers instead.
2505: Tacitus continues to mention Germanic tribes on the west bank of the Rhine in the period of the early Empire, such as the Tungri, Nemetes, Ubii, and the Batavi.
2506: Inspired by this, these three groups are also sometimes used in older modern linguistic terminology, attempting to describe the divisions of later Germanic languages.)
2507: Herminones or Hermiones in the interior, included the Suevi, the Hermunduri, the Chatti, the Cherusci according to Pliny.
2508: On the other hand, Tacitus wrote in the same passage that some believe that there are other groups which are just as old as these three, including "the Marsi, Gambrivii, Suevi, Vandilii".
2509: For this reason, it is claimed these men were the first philosophers in the strict sense, and also the first people to clearly distinguish "nature" and "convention."
2510: In contrast, trying to use knowledge of nature to imitate nature (artifice or technology, Greek technē) was seen by classical scientists as a more appropriate interest for artisans of lower social class.
2511: The theory of atoms was developed by the Greek philosopher Leucippus and his student Democritus.
2512: The Socratic method as documented by Plato's dialogues is a dialectic method of hypothesis elimination: better hypotheses are found by steadily identifying and eliminating those that lead to contradictions.
2513: Socrates criticized the older type of study of physics as too purely speculative and lacking in self-criticism.
2514: Aristotle later created a systematic programme of teleological philosophy: Motion and change is described as the actualization of potentials already in things, according to what types of things they are.
2515: The Church-Turing thesis, along with concurrent discoveries in neurobiology, information theory and cybernetics, this led researchers to consider the possibility of building an electronic brain.
2516: Attendees Allen Newell (CMU), Herbert Simon (CMU), John McCarthy (MIT), Marvin Minsky (MIT) and Arthur Samuel (IBM) became the founders and leaders of AI research.
2517: AI's founders were optimistic about the future: Herbert Simon predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".
2518: Progress slowed and in 1974, in response to the criticism of Sir James Lighthill and ongoing pressure from the US Congress to fund more productive projects, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in AI.
2519: By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars.
2520: Faster computers, algorithmic improvements, and access to large amounts of data enabled advances in machine learning and perception; data-hungry deep learning methods started to dominate accuracy benchmarks around 2012.
2521: Nanoscale materials such as nanopillars are sometimes used in solar cells which combats the cost of traditional silicon solar cells.
2522: More generally, molecular self-assembly seeks to use concepts of supramolecular chemistry, and molecular recognition in particular, to cause single-molecule components to automatically arrange themselves into some useful conformation.
2523: Giant magnetoresistance-based hard drives already on the market fit this description, as do atomic layer deposition (ALD) techniques.
2524: Focused ion beams can directly remove material, or even deposit material when suitable precursor gasses are applied at the same time.
2525: These could then be used as single-molecule components in a nanoelectronic device.
2526: Molecular nanotechnology is a proposed approach which involves manipulating single molecules in finely controlled, deterministic ways.
2527: Most if not all properties of 1 can be deduced from this.
2528: It is thus the integer after zero.
2529: It was transmitted to Europe via the Maghreb and Andalusia during the Middle Ages, through scholarly works written in Arabic.
2530: Styles that do not use the long upstroke on digit 1 usually do not use the horizontal stroke through the vertical of the digit 7 either.
2531: By definition, 1 is the magnitude, absolute value, or norm of a unit complex number, unit vector, and a unit matrix (more usually called an identity matrix).
2532: In category theory, 1 is sometimes used to denote the terminal object of a category.
2533: It is also the study of the history of various ethnic groups that may or may not exist today.
2534: Various social processes in the Western World as well as in the "Third World" (the latter being the habitual focus of attention of anthropologists) brought the attention of "specialists in 'other cultures'" closer to their homes.
2535: It is an interdisciplinary field that overlaps with a number of other disciplines, including anthropology, ethology, medicine, psychology, veterinary medicine and zoology.
2536: It is the study of ancient humans, as found in fossil hominid evidence such as petrifacted bones and footprints.
2537: In 1989, a group of European and American scholars in the field of anthropology established the European Association of Social Anthropologists (EASA) which serves as a major professional organization for anthropologists working in Europe.
2538: This is the notion that cultures should not be judged by another's values or viewpoints, but be examined dispassionately on their own terms.
2539: Not only these prominent examples but almost all real numbers are irrational and therefore have no repeating patterns and hence no corresponding decimal numeral.
2540: Since not even the second digit after the decimal place is preserved, the following digits are not significant.
2541: For example, 0.999..., 1.0, 1.00, 1.000, ..., all represent the natural number 1.
2542: Finally, if all of the digits in a numeral are 0, the number is 0, and if all of the digits in a numeral are an unending string of 9's, you can drop the nines to the right of the decimal place, and add one to the string of 9s to the left of the decimal place.
2543: Thus the real numbers are a subset of the complex numbers.
2544: The fundamental theorem of algebra asserts that the complex numbers form an algebraically closed field, meaning that every polynomial with complex coefficients has a root in the complex numbers.
2545: Clifford McCarty wrote that Warner Bros. publicity department had altered it to January 23, 1900 "to foster the view that a man born on Christmas Day couldn't really be as villainous as he appeared to be on screen".
2546: Lauren Bacall wrote in her autobiography that Bogart's birthday was always celebrated on Christmas Day, saying that he joked about being cheated out of a present every year.
2547: Maud was a commercial illustrator who received her art training in New York and France, including study with James Abbott McNeill Whistler.
2548: She earned over $50,000 a year at the peak of her career – a very large sum of money at the time, and considerably more than her husband's $20,000.
2549: He had two younger sisters: Frances ("Pat") and Catherine Elizabeth ("Kay").
2550: A kiss, in our family, was an event.
2551: Strabo, who focused mainly on Germani between the Elbe and Rhine, and does not mention the sons of Mannus, also set apart the names of Germani who are not Suevian, in two other groups, similarly implying three main divisions: "smaller German tribes, as the Cherusci, Chatti, Gamabrivi, Chattuarii, and next the ocean the Sicambri, Chaubi, Bructeri, Cimbri, Cauci, Caulci, Campsiani".
2552: During the Pre-Germanic linguistic period (2500–500 BCE), the proto-language has almost certainly been influenced by linguistic substrates still noticeable in the Germanic phonology and lexicon.
2553: There is also a great deal of influence in vocabulary from the Celtic languages, but most of this appears to be much later, with most loanwords occurring either before or during the sound shift described by Grimm's Law.
2554: Although Proto-Germanic is reconstructed without dialects via the comparative method, it is almost certain that it never was a uniform proto-language.
2555: The earliest attested runic inscriptions (Vimose comb, Øvre Stabu spearhead), initially concentrated in modern Denmark and written with the Elder Futhark system, are dated to the second half of the 2nd century CE.
2556: However, the merging of unstressed Proto-Germanic vowels, attested in runic inscriptions from the 4th and 5th centuries CE, also suggests that Primitive Norse could not have been a direct predecessor of West Germanic dialects.
2557: The Socratics also insisted that philosophy should be used to consider the practical question of the best way to live for a human being (a study Aristotle divided into ethics and political philosophy).
2558: Aristarchus's model was widely rejected because it was believed to violate the laws of physics.
2559: John Philoponus, a Byzantine scholar in the 500s, questioned Aristotle's teaching of physics, noting its flaws.
2560: Aristotle's four causes prescribed that the question "why" should be answered in four ways in order to explain things scientifically.
2561: However, Aristotle's original texts were eventually lost in Western Europe, and only one text by Plato was widely known, the Timaeus, which was the only Platonic dialogue, and one of the few original works of classical natural philosophy, available to Latin readers in the early Middle Ages.
2562: Many Syriac translations were done by groups such as the Nestorians and Monophysites.
2563: AI research divided into competing sub-fields that often failed to communicate with each other.
2564: The research was centered in three institutions: Carnegie Mellon University, Stanford, and MIT, and as described below, each one developed its own style of research.
2565: They called their work by several names: e.g. embodied, situated, behavior-based or developmental.
2566: The shared mathematical language permitted a high level of collaboration with more established fields (like mathematics, economics or operations research).
2567: Nowadays results of experiments are often rigorously measurable, and are sometimes (with difficulty) reproducible.
2568: These algorithms proved to be insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experienced a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.
2569: There are hopes for applying nanorobots in medicine.
2570: Because of the discrete (i.e. atomic) nature of matter and the possibility of exponential growth, this stage is seen as the basis of another industrial revolution.
2571: With the decrease in dimensionality, an increase in surface-to-volume ratio is observed.
2572: Although conceptually similar to the scanning confocal microscope developed by Marvin Minsky in 1961 and the scanning acoustic microscope (SAM) developed by Calvin Quate and coworkers in the 1970s, newer scanning probe microscopes have much higher resolution, since they are not limited by the wavelength of sound or light.
2573: However, this is still a slow process because of low scanning velocity of the microscope.
2574: Another group of nanotechnological techniques include those used for fabrication of nanotubes and nanowires, those used in semiconductor fabrication such as deep ultraviolet lithography, electron beam lithography, focused ion beam machining, nanoimprint lithography, atomic layer deposition, and molecular vapor deposition, and further including molecular self-assembly techniques such as those employing di-block copolymers.
2575: Since the base 1 exponential function (1x) always equals 1, its inverse does not exist (which would be called the logarithm base 1 if it did exist).
2576: Likewise, vectors are often normalized into unit vectors (i.e., vectors of magnitude one), because these often have more desirable properties.
2577: It is also the first and second number in the Fibonacci sequence (0 being the zeroth) and is the first number in many other mathematical sequences.
2578: Nevertheless, abstract algebra can consider the field with one element, which is not a singleton and is not a set at all.
2579: A binary code is a sequence of 1 and 0 that is used in computers for representing any kind of data.
2580: +1 is the electric charge of positrons and protons.
2581: Franz Boas publicly objected to US participation in World War I, and after the war he published a brief expose and condemnation of the participation of several American archaeologists in espionage in Mexico under their cover as scientists.
2582: At the same time, David H. Price's work on American anthropology during the Cold War provides detailed accounts of the pursuit and dismissal of several anthropologists from their jobs for communist sympathies.
2583: Numerous resolutions condemning the war in all its aspects were passed overwhelmingly at the annual meetings of the American Anthropological Association (AAA).
2584: The Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK and Commonwealth (ASA) has called certain scholarship ethically dangerous.
2585: One of the central characteristics is that anthropology tends to provide a comparatively more holistic account of phenomena and tends to be highly empirical.
2586: These dynamic relationships, between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.
2587: The primes have been widely studied for more than 2000 years and have led to many questions, only some of which have been answered.
2588: Real numbers that are not rational numbers are called irrational numbers.
2589: The computable numbers are stable for all usual arithmetic operations, including the computation of the roots of a polynomial, and thus form a real closed field that contains the real algebraic numbers.
2590: One reason is that there is no algorithm for testing the equality of two computable numbers.
2591: The number system that results depends on what base is used for the digits: any base is possible, but a prime number base provides the best mathematical properties.
2592: The former gives the ordering of the set, while the latter gives its size.
2593: He inherited a tendency to needle, a fondness for fishing, a lifelong love of boating, and an attraction to strong-willed women from his father.
2594: Bogart later attended Phillips Academy, a boarding school to which he was admitted based on family connections.
2595: Several reasons have been given; according to one, he was expelled for throwing the headmaster (or a groundskeeper) into Rabbit Pond on campus.
2596: He then volunteered for the Coast Guard Temporary Reserve in 1944, patrolling the California coastline in his yacht, the Santana.
2597: In one, his lip was cut by shrapnel when his ship (the ) was shelled.
2598: While changing trains in Boston, the handcuffed prisoner reportedly asked Bogart for a cigarette.
2599: By the late 3rd century CE, linguistic divergences like the West Germanic loss of the final consonant -z had already occurred within the "residual" Northwest dialect continuum.
2600: The inclusion of the Burgundian and Vandalic languages within the East Germanic group, while plausible, is still uncertain due to their scarce attestation.
2601: A society is a group of individuals involved in persistent social interaction, or a large social group sharing the same spatial or social territory, typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations.
2602: Societies construct patterns of behavior by deeming certain actions or speech as acceptable or unacceptable.
2603: Insofar as it is collaborative, a society can enable its members to benefit in ways that would otherwise be difficult on an individual basis; both individual and social (common) benefits can thus be distinguished, or in many cases found to overlap.
2604: This was in turn from the Latin word societas, which in turn was derived from the noun socius ("comrade, friend, ally"; adjectival form socialis) used to describe a bond or interaction between parties that are friendly, or at least civil.
2605: p. 465: "only when the influence of ibn al-Haytam and others on the mainstream of later medieval physical writings has been seriously investigated can Schramm's claim that ibn al-Haytam was the true founder of modern physics be evaluated."
2606: Avicenna's canon is considered to be one of the most important publications in medicine and they both contributed significantly to the practice of experimental medicine, using clinical trials and experiments to back their claims.
2607: In addition, classical Greek texts started to be translated from Arabic and Greek into Latin, giving a higher level of scientific discussion in Western Europe.
2608: Manuscript copies of Alhazen's Book of Optics also propagated across Europe before 1240, as evidenced by its incorporation into Vitello's Perspectiva.
2609: The influx of ancient texts caused the Renaissance of the 12th century and the flourishing of a synthesis of Catholicism and Aristotelianism known as Scholasticism in western Europe, which became a new geographic center of science.
2610: A model of vision later known as perspectivism was exploited and studied by the artists of the Renaissance.
2611: Among the things a comprehensive commonsense knowledge base would contain are: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects; situations, events, states and time; causes and effects; knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know); and many other, less well researched domains.
2612: For example, if a bird comes up in conversation, people typically picture a fist-sized animal that sings and flies.
2613: Almost nothing is simply true or false in the way that abstract logic requires.
2614: Research projects that attempt to build a complete knowledge base of commonsense knowledge (e.g., Cyc) require enormous amounts of laborious ontological engineering—they must be built, by hand, one complicated concept at a time.
2615: They need a way to visualize the future—a representation of the state of the world and be able to make predictions about how their actions will change it—and be able to make choices that maximize the utility (or "value") of available choices.
2616: This calls for an agent that can not only assess its environment and make predictions but also evaluate its predictions and adapt based on its assessment.
2617: Scanning probe microscopy is an important technique both for characterization and synthesis of nanomaterials.
2618: By using, for example, feature-oriented scanning approach, atoms or molecules can be moved around on a surface with scanning probe microscopy techniques.
2619: These techniques include chemical synthesis, self-assembly and positional assembly.
2620: Researchers at Bell Telephone Laboratories like John R. Arthur.
2621: MBE allows scientists to lay down atomically precise layers of atoms and, in the process, build up complex structures.
2622: Bandages are being infused with silver nanoparticles to heal cuts faster.
2623: The Neopythagorean philosopher Nicomachus of Gerasa affirmed that one is not a number, but the source of number.
2624: We Are Number One is a 2014 song from the children's TV show LazyTown, which gained popularity as a meme.
2625: In association football (soccer) the number 1 is often given to the goalkeeper.
2626: 1 is the lowest number permitted for use by players of the National Hockey League (NHL); the league prohibited the use of 00 and 0 in the late 1990s (the highest number permitted being 98).
2627: Any random sequence of digits contains arbitrarily long subsequences that appear non-random, by the infinite monkey theorem.
2628: Second, since no transcendental number can be constructed with compass and straightedge, it is not possible to "square the circle".
2629: On the biological or physical side, human measurements, genetic samples, nutritional data may be gathered and published as articles or monographs.
2630: Further cultural subdivisions according to tool types, such as Olduwan or Mousterian or Levalloisian help archaeologists and other anthropologists in understanding major trends in the human past.
2631: A cultural norm codifies acceptable conduct in society; it serves as a guideline for behavior, dress, language, and demeanor in a situation, which serves as a template for expectations in a social group.
2632: These include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing.
2633: The level of cultural sophistication has also sometimes been used to distinguish civilizations from less complex societies.
2634: Mass culture refers to the mass-produced and mass mediated forms of consumer culture that emerged in the 20th century.
2635: This standard basis makes the complex numbers a Cartesian plane, called the complex plane.
2636: The complex numbers of absolute value one form the unit circle.
2637: In domain coloring the output dimensions are represented by color and brightness, respectively.
2638: Work on the problem of general polynomials ultimately led to the fundamental theorem of algebra, which shows that with complex numbers, a solution exists to every polynomial equation of degree one or higher.
2639: Wessel's memoir appeared in the Proceedings of the Copenhagen Academy but went largely unnoticed.
2640: Later classical writers on the general theory include Richard Dedekind, Otto Hölder, Felix Klein, Henri Poincaré, Hermann Schwarz, Karl Weierstrass and many others.
2641: By the time Bogart was treated by a doctor, a scar had formed.
2642: Instead of stitching it up, he screwed it up."
2643: His character and values developed separately from his family during his navy days, and he began to rebel.
2644: Bogart resumed his friendship with Bill Brady Jr. (whose father had show-business connections), and obtained an office job with William A. Brady's new World Films company.
2645: He made his stage debut a few months later as a Japanese butler in Alice's 1921 play Drifting (nervously delivering one line of dialogue), and appeared in several of her subsequent plays.
2646: A barroom brawl at this time was also a purported cause of Bogart's lip damage, dovetailing with Louise Brooks' account.
2647: In the 1630s it was used in reference to "people bound by neighborhood and intercourse aware of living together in an ordered community".
2648: These structures may have varying degrees of political power, depending on the cultural, geographical, and historical environments that these societies must contend with.
2649: Tribal societies in which there are some limited instances of social rank and prestige.
2650: This cultural evolution has a profound effect on patterns of community.
2651: Cities turned into city-states and nation-states.
2652: Conversely, members of a society may also shun or scapegoat any members of the society who violate its norms.
2653: This was based on a theorem that the orbital periods of the planets are longer as their orbs are farther from the centre of motion, which he found not to agree with Ptolemy's model.
2654: He found that all the light from a single point of the scene was imaged at a single point at the back of the glass sphere.
2655: Kepler did not reject Aristotelian metaphysics and described his work as a search for the Harmony of the Spheres.
2656: Galileo had used arguments from the Pope and put them in the voice of the simpleton in the work "Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems", which greatly offended Urban VIII.
2657: Descartes emphasized individual thought and argued that mathematics rather than geometry should be used in order to study nature.
2658: This new science began to see itself as describing "laws of nature".
2659: Classification is used to determine what category something belongs in, and occurs after a program sees a number of examples of things from several categories.
2660: Computational learning theory can assess learners by computational complexity, by sample complexity (how much data is required), or by other notions of optimization.
2661: Many current approaches use word co-occurrence frequencies to construct syntactic representations of text. "
2662: Modern statistical NLP approaches can combine all these strategies as well as others, and often achieve acceptable accuracy at the page or paragraph level.
2663: A modern mobile robot, when given a small, static, and visible environment, can easily determine its location and map its environment; however, dynamic environments, such as (in endoscopy) the interior of a patient's breathing body, pose a greater challenge.
2664: For example, some virtual assistants are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate human–computer interaction.
2665: Nanotechnology may have the ability to make existing medical applications cheaper and easier to use in places like the general practitioner's office and at home.
2666: Platinum is currently used as the diesel engine catalyst in these engines.
2667: Next the oxidation catalyst oxidizes the hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide to form carbon dioxide and water.
2668: Danish company InnovationsFonden invested DKK 15 million in a search for new catalyst substitutes using nanotechnology.
2669: If the catalyst's surface area that is exposed to the exhaust fumes is maximized, efficiency of the catalyst is maximized.
2670: Thus, creating these nanoparticles will increase the effectiveness of the resulting diesel engine catalyst—in turn leading to cleaner exhaust fumes—and will decrease cost.
2671: The Indian astronomer Aryabhata used a value of 3.1416 in his Āryabhaṭīya (499 AD).
2672: The Persian astronomer Jamshīd al-Kāshī produced 9 sexagesimal digits, roughly the equivalent of 16 decimal digits, in 1424 using a polygon with 3×228 sides, which stood as the world record for about 180 years.
2673: These avoid reliance on infinite series.
2674: As modified by Salamin and Brent, it is also referred to as the Brent–Salamin algorithm.
2675: This is in contrast to infinite series or iterative algorithms, which retain and use all intermediate digits until the final result is produced.
2676: Such memorization aids are called mnemonics.
2677: In the wider social sciences, the theoretical perspective of cultural materialism holds that human symbolic culture arises from the material conditions of human life, as humans create the conditions for physical survival, and that the basis of culture is found in evolved biological dispositions.
2678: In this sense, multiculturalism values the peaceful coexistence and mutual respect between different cultures inhabiting the same planet.
2679: In 1986, philosopher Edward S. Casey wrote, "The very word culture meant 'place tilled' in Middle English, and the same word goes back to Latin colere, 'to inhabit, care for, till, worship' and cultus, 'A cult, especially a religious one.'
2680: Thus a contrast between "culture" and "civilization" is usually implied in these authors, even when not expressed as such.
2681: This ability arose with the evolution of behavioral modernity in humans around 50,000 years ago and is often thought to be unique to humans.
2682: Rein Raud, building on the work of Umberto Eco, Pierre Bourdieu and Jeffrey C. Alexander, has proposed a model of cultural change based on claims and bids, which are judged by their cognitive adequacy and endorsed or not endorsed by the symbolic authority of the cultural community in question.
2683: The use of imaginary numbers was not widely accepted until the work of Leonhard Euler (1707–1783) and Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855).
2684: The integers form the smallest group and the smallest ring containing the natural numbers.
2685: It is the prototype of all objects of such algebraic structure.
2686: Fixed length integer approximation data types (or subsets) are denoted int or Integer in several programming languages (such as Algol68, C, Java, Delphi, etc.).
2687: These are provable properties of rational numbers and positional number systems, and are not used as definitions in mathematics.
2688: Since the triangle is isosceles, a = b).
2689: Bogart disliked his trivial, effeminate early-career parts, calling them "White Pants Willie" roles.
2690: Menken said in her divorce filing that Bogart valued his career more than marriage, citing neglect and abuse.
2691: There he met Spencer Tracy, a Broadway actor whom Bogart liked and admired, and they became close friends and drinking companions.
2692: Tracy received top billing, but Bogart appeared on the film's posters.
2693: A quarter of a century later, the two men planned to make The Desperate Hours together.
2694: Bogart shuttled back and forth between Hollywood and the New York stage from 1930 to 1935, out of work for long periods.
2695: Some societies bestow status on an individual or group of people when that individual or group performs an admired or desired action.
2696: Although humans have established many types of societies throughout history, anthropologists tend to classify different societies according to the degree to which different groups within a society have unequal access to advantages such as resources, prestige, or power.
2697: However, some hunting and gathering societies in areas with abundant resources (such as people of tlingit) lived in larger groups and formed complex hierarchical social structures such as chiefdom.
2698: Statuses within the tribe are relatively equal, and decisions are reached through general agreement.
2699: There are no political offices containing real power, and a chief is merely a person of influence, a sort of adviser; therefore, tribal consolidations for collective action are not governmental.
2700: Because their food supply is far more reliable, pastoral societies can support larger populations.
2701: In the style of Francis Bacon, Leibniz assumed that different types of things all work according to the same general laws of nature, with no special formal or final causes for each type of thing.
2702: In Bacon's words, "the real and legitimate goal of sciences is the endowment of human life with new inventions and riches", and he discouraged scientists from pursuing intangible philosophical or spiritual ideas, which he believed contributed little to human happiness beyond "the fume of subtle, sublime, or pleasing speculation".
2703: Another important development was the popularization of science among an increasingly literate population.
2704: Enlightenment philosophers chose a short history of scientific predecessors – Galileo, Boyle, and Newton principally – as the guides and guarantors of their applications of the singular concept of nature and natural law to every physical and social field of the day.
2705: Hume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed a "science of man", which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity.
2706: Both John Herschel and William Whewell systematized methodology: the latter coined the term scientist.
2707: Can intelligent behavior be described using simple, elegant principles (such as logic or optimization)?
2708: Or do we use algorithms that can only give us a "reasonable" solution (e.g., probabilistic methods) but may fall prey to the same kind of inscrutable mistakes that human intuition makes?
2709: Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig observe that most AI researchers "don't care about the strong AI hypothesis—as long as the program works, they don't care whether you call it a simulation of intelligence or real intelligence."
2710: The new intelligence could thus increase exponentially and dramatically surpass humans.
2711: The relationship between automation and employment is complicated.
2712: Subjective estimates of the risk vary widely; for example, Michael Osborne and Carl Benedikt Frey estimate 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classifies only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".
2713: When designing scaffolds, researchers attempt to mimic the nanoscale features of a cell's microenvironment to direct its differentiation down a suitable lineage.
2714: TSMC began production of a 7 nm process in 2017, and Samsung began production of a 5 nm process in 2018.
2715: For these reasons, some groups advocate that nanotechnology be regulated by governments.
2716: Some nanoparticle products may have unintended consequences.
2717: Inhaling airborne nanoparticles and nanofibers may lead to a number of pulmonary diseases, e.g. fibrosis.
2718: A major study published more recently in Nature Nanotechnology suggests some forms of carbon nanotubes – a poster child for the "nanotechnology revolution" – could be as harmful as asbestos if inhaled in sufficient quantities.
2719: The digits are large wooden characters attached to the dome-like ceiling.
2720: A numerical digit is a single symbol used alone (such as "2") or in combinations (such as "25"), to represent numbers in a positional numeral system.
2721: A positional number system has one unique digit for each integer from zero up to, but not including, the radix of the number system.
2722: The original numerals were very similar to the modern ones, even down to the glyphs used to represent digits.
2723: The Mayas used a shell symbol to represent zero.
2724: The Thai numeral system is identical to the Hindu–Arabic numeral system except for the symbols used to represent digits.
2725: Culture repositioning means the reconstruction of the cultural concept of a society.
2726: Social conflict and the development of technologies can produce changes within a society by altering social dynamics and promoting new cultural models, and spurring or enabling generative action.
2727: Environmental conditions may also enter as factors.
2728: War or competition over resources may impact technological development or social dynamics.
2729: For example, Western restaurant chains and culinary brands sparked curiosity and fascination to the Chinese as China opened its economy to international trade in the late 20th-century.
2730: He argued that this immaturity comes not from a lack of understanding, but from a lack of courage to think independently.
2731: Since c is even, dividing c by 2 yields an integer.
2732: Substituting 4y2 for c2 in the first equation (c2 = 2b2) gives us 4y2= 2b2.
2733: Since b2 is even, b must be even.
2734: However this contradicts the assumption that they have no common factors.
2735: Hippasus, however, was not lauded for his efforts: according to one legend, he made his discovery while out at sea, and was subsequently thrown overboard by his fellow Pythagoreans “…for having produced an element in the universe which denied the…doctrine that all phenomena in the universe can be reduced to whole numbers and their ratios.”
2736: For example, consider a line segment: this segment can be split in half, that half split in half, the half of the half in half, and so on.
2737: Although Leslie Howard was the star, The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson said that the play was "a peach ... a roaring Western melodrama ... Humphrey Bogart does the best work of his career as an actor."
2738: Warner Bros. bought the screen rights to The Petrified Forest in 1935.
2739: Howard, who held the production rights, made it clear that he wanted Bogart to star with him.
2740: When Warner Bros. saw that Howard would not budge, they gave in and cast Bogart.
2741: According to Variety, "Bogart's menace leaves nothing wanting".
2742: There must be something in my tone of voice, or this arrogant face—something that antagonizes everybody.
2743: For example, some people become craftworkers, producing tools, weapons, and jewelry, among other items of value.
2744: These families often gain power through their increased wealth.
2745: The wild vegetation is cut and burned, and ashes are used as fertilizers.
2746: They may return to the original land several years later and begin the process again.
2747: The size of a village's population depends on the amount of land available for farming; thus villages can range from as few as 30 people to as many as 2000.
2748: Sociologists use the phrase agricultural revolution to refer to the technological changes that occurred as long as 8,500 years ago that led to cultivating crops and raising farm animals.
2749: Separately, Gregor Mendel presented his paper, "Versuche über Pflanzenhybriden" ("Experiments on Plant Hybridization"), in 1865, which outlined the principles of biological inheritance, serving as the basis for modern genetics.
2750: The phenomena that would allow the deconstruction of the atom were discovered in the last decade of the 19th century: the discovery of X-rays inspired the discovery of radioactivity.
2751: In addition, the extensive use of technological innovation stimulated by the wars of this century led to revolutions in transportation (automobiles and aircraft), the development of ICBMs, a space race, and a nuclear arms race.
2752: The discovery of the cosmic microwave background radiation in 1964 led to a rejection of the Steady State theory of the universe in favor of the Big Bang theory of Georges Lemaître.
2753: Widespread use of integrated circuits in the last quarter of the 20th century combined with communications satellites led to a revolution in information technology and the rise of the global internet and mobile computing, including smartphones.
2754: Both natural and social sciences are empirical sciences, as their knowledge is based on empirical observations and is capable of being tested for its validity by other researchers working under the same conditions.
2755: In the long-term, the scientists have proposed to continue optimizing function while minimizing possible security risks that come along with new technologies.
2756: In his book Superintelligence, philosopher Nick Bostrom provides an argument that artificial intelligence will pose a threat to humankind.
2757: Bostrom also emphasizes the difficulty of fully conveying humanity's values to an advanced AI.
2758: In his book Human Compatible, AI researcher Stuart J. Russell echoes some of Bostrom's concerns while also proposing an approach to developing provably beneficial machines focused on uncertainty and deference to humans, possibly involving inverse reinforcement learning.
2759: The opinion of experts within the field of artificial intelligence is mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superhumanly-capable AI.
2760: Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg believes AI will "unlock a huge amount of positive things," such as curing disease and increasing the safety of autonomous cars.
2761: Davies (2008) has proposed a regulatory road map describing steps to deal with these shortcomings.
2762: As a result, some academics have called for stricter application of the precautionary principle, with delayed marketing approval, enhanced labelling and additional safety data development requirements in relation to certain forms of nanotechnology.
2763: Nuclear technology is technology that involves the nuclear reactions of atomic nuclei.
2764: He, Pierre Curie and Marie Curie began investigating the phenomenon.
2765: Some of these kinds of radiation could pass through ordinary matter, and all of them could be harmful in large amounts.
2766: Gradually it was realized that the radiation produced by radioactive decay was ionizing radiation, and that even quantities too small to burn could pose a severe long-term hazard.
2767: They are both base 3 systems.
2768: Several authors in the last 300 years have noted a facility of positional notation that amounts to a modified decimal representation.
2769: For example, 1111 (one thousand, one hundred and eleven) is a repunit.
2770: Besides counting ten fingers, some cultures have counted knuckles, the space between fingers, and toes as well as fingers.
2771: Stone age cultures, including ancient indigenous American groups, used tallies for gambling, personal services, and trade-goods.
2772: Beginning about 3500 BC, clay tokens were gradually replaced by number signs impressed with a round stylus at different angles in clay tablets (originally containers for tokens) which were then baked.
2773: Moreover, Herder proposed a collective form of Bildung: "For Herder, Bildung was the totality of experiences that provide a coherent identity, and sense of common destiny, to a people."
2774: According to this school of thought, each ethnic group has a distinct worldview that is incommensurable with the worldviews of other groups.
2775: He proposed that a scientific comparison of all human societies would reveal that distinct worldviews consisted of the same basic elements.
2776: a particular way of life, whether of a people, period or a group.
2777: In other words, the idea of "culture" that developed in Europe during the 18th and early 19th centuries reflected inequalities within European societies.
2778: According to this way of thinking, one could classify some countries and nations as more civilized than others and some people as more cultured than others.
2779: This is just what Zeno sought to prove.
2780: In the minds of the Greeks, disproving the validity of one view did not necessarily prove the validity of another, and therefore further investigation had to occur.
2781: A magnitude “...was not a number but stood for entities such as line segments, angles, areas, volumes, and time which could vary, as we would say, continuously.
2782: Because no quantitative values were assigned to magnitudes, Eudoxus was then able to account for both commensurable and incommensurable ratios by defining a ratio in terms of its magnitude, and proportion as an equality between two ratios.
2783: This incommensurability is dealt with in Euclid's Elements, Book X, Proposition 9.
2784: In fact, in many cases algebraic conceptions were reformulated into geometric terms.
2785: In spite of his success, Warner Bros. had no interest in raising Bogart's profile.
2786: Bogart used these years to begin developing his film persona: a wounded, stoical, cynical, charming, vulnerable, self-mocking loner with a code of honor.
2787: His disputes with Warner Bros. over roles and money were similar to those waged by the studio with more established and less malleable stars such as Bette Davis and James Cagney.
2788: His only leading role during this period was in Dead End (1937, on loan to Samuel Goldwyn), as a gangster modeled after Baby Face Nelson.
2789: In Black Legion (1937), a movie Graham Greene described as "intelligent and exciting, if rather earnest", he played a good man who was caught up with (and destroyed by) a racist organization.
2790: The trouble was they were drinking mine and I was making this stinking movie."
2791: Greater degrees of social stratification appeared in agrarian societies.
2792: However, as food stores improved and women took on lesser roles in providing food for the family, they increasingly became subordinate to men.
2793: A system of rulers with high social status also appeared.
2794: Europe's exploration of the Americas served as one impetus for the development of capitalism.
2795: This produced further dramatic increases in efficiency.
2796: This larger surplus caused all of the changes discussed earlier in the domestication revolution to become even more pronounced.
2797: For example, physical science can be subdivided into physics, chemistry, astronomy, and earth science.
2798: Still, philosophical perspectives, conjectures, and presuppositions, often overlooked, remain necessary in natural science.
2799: It includes mathematics, systems theory, and theoretical computer science.
2800: The formal sciences are therefore a priori disciplines and because of this, there is disagreement on whether they actually constitute a science.
2801: Engineering itself encompasses a range of more specialized fields of engineering, each with a more specific emphasis on particular areas of applied mathematics, science, and types of application.
2802: he responded: "Sir, what is the use of a new-born child?".
2803: Musk also funds companies developing artificial intelligence such as DeepMind and Vicarious to "just keep an eye on what's going on with artificial intelligence.
2804: Research in this area includes machine ethics, artificial moral agents, friendly AI and discussion towards building a human rights framework is also in talks.
2805: The time has come for adding an ethical dimension to at least some machines.
2806: Research in machine ethics is key to alleviating concerns with autonomous systems—it could be argued that the notion of autonomous machines without such a dimension is at the root of all fear concerning machine intelligence.
2807: Humans should not assume machines or robots would treat us favorably because there is no a priori reason to believe that they would be sympathetic to our system of morality, which has evolved along with our particular biology (which AIs would not share).
2808: One proposal to deal with this is to ensure that the first generally intelligent AI is 'Friendly AI' and will be able to control subsequently developed AIs.
2809: As the atom came to be better understood, the nature of radioactivity became clearer.
2810: Alpha decay is when a nucleus releases an alpha particle, which is two protons and two neutrons, equivalent to a helium nucleus.
2811: This type of radiation is the most dangerous and most difficult to block.
2812: The average number of neutrons released per nucleus that go on to fission another nucleus is referred to as k. Values of k larger than 1 mean that the fission reaction is releasing more neutrons than it absorbs, and therefore is referred to as a self-sustaining chain reaction.
2813: If there are enough immediate decays to carry on the chain reaction, the mass is said to be prompt critical, and the energy release will grow rapidly and uncontrollably, usually leading to an explosion.
2814: During the project, the first fission reactors were developed as well, though they were primarily for weapons manufacture and did not generate electricity.
2815: These cuneiform number signs resembled the round number signs they replaced and retained the additive sign-value notation of the round number signs.
2816: Sexagesimal numerals were a mixed radix system that retained the alternating base 10 and base 6 in a sequence of cuneiform vertical wedges and chevrons.
2817: Unique numbers of troops and measures of rice appear as unique combinations of these tallies.
2818: Conventional tallies are quite difficult to multiply and divide.
2819: Jews began using a similar system (Hebrew numerals), with the oldest examples known being coins from around 100 BC.
2820: The Maya of Central America used a mixed base 18 and base 20 system, possibly inherited from the Olmec, including advanced features such as positional notation and a zero.
2821: Other 19th-century critics, following Rousseau, have accepted this differentiation between higher and lower culture, but have seen the refinement and sophistication of high culture as corrupting and unnatural developments that obscure and distort people's essential nature.
2822: In 1870 the anthropologist Edward Tylor (1832–1917) applied these ideas of higher versus lower culture to propose a theory of the evolution of religion.
2823: For sociologist Georg Simmel (1858–1918), culture referred to "the cultivation of individuals through the agency of external forms which have been objectified in the course of history."
2824: Non-material culture refers to the non-physical ideas that individuals have about their culture, including values, belief systems, rules, norms, morals, language, organizations, and institutions, while material culture is the physical evidence of a culture in the objects and architecture they make or have made.
2825: Cultural sociology was then "reinvented" in the English-speaking world as a product of the "cultural turn" of the 1960s, which ushered in structuralist and postmodern approaches to social science.
2826: Culture" has since become an important concept across many branches of sociology, including resolutely scientific fields like social stratification and social network analysis.
2827: The realization that some basic conception within the existing theory was at odds with reality necessitated a complete and thorough investigation of the axioms and assumptions that underlie that theory.
2828: However, historian Carl Benjamin Boyer writes that "such claims are not well substantiated and unlikely to be true".
2829: Mathematicians like Brahmagupta (in 628 AD) and Bhāskara I (in 629 AD) made contributions in this area as did other mathematicians who followed.
2830: The year 1872 saw the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil Ernst Kossak), Eduard Heine (Crelle's Journal, 74), Georg Cantor (Annalen, 5), and Richard Dedekind.
2831: Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of all rational numbers, separating them into two groups having certain characteristic properties.
2832: Dirichlet also added to the general theory, as have numerous contributors to the applications of the subject.
2833: On August 21, 1938, Bogart entered a turbulent third marriage to actress Mayo Methot, a lively, friendly woman when sober but paranoid and aggressive when drunk.
2834: She set their house afire, stabbed him with a knife, and slashed her wrists several times.
2835: According to their friend, Julius Epstein, "The Bogart-Methot marriage was the sequel to the Civil War".
2836: Methot's influence was increasingly destructive, however, and Bogart also continued to drink.
2837: When he thought an actor, director or studio had done something shoddy, he spoke up publicly about it.
2838: Paul Muni, George Raft, Cagney and Robinson turned down the lead role, giving Bogart the opportunity to play a character with some depth.
2839: However, inequality became even greater than before.
2840: Geographically, it covers at the very least the countries of Western Europe, North America, Australia, and New Zealand.
2841: One of the European Union's areas of interest is the information society.
2842: Some academic, professional, and scientific associations describe themselves as societies (for example, the American Mathematical Society, the American Society of Civil Engineers, or the Royal Society).
2843: A community is a social unit (a group of living things) with commonality such as norms, religion, values, customs, or identity.
2844: In this sense it is synonymous with the concept of an ancient settlement - whether a hamlet, village, town, or city.
2845: This new explanation is used to make falsifiable predictions that are testable by experiment or observation.
2846: This is done partly through observation of natural phenomena, but also through experimentation that tries to simulate natural events under controlled conditions as appropriate to the discipline (in the observational sciences, such as astronomy or geology, a predicted observation might take the place of a controlled experiment).
2847: If the hypothesis survived testing, it may become adopted into the framework of a scientific theory, a logically reasoned, self-consistent model or framework for describing the behavior of certain natural phenomena.
2848: In that vein, theories are formulated according to most of the same scientific principles as hypotheses.
2849: This can be achieved by careful experimental design, transparency, and a thorough peer review process of the experimental results as well as any conclusions.
2850: Statistics, a branch of mathematics, is used to summarize and analyze data, which allow scientists to assess the reliability and variability of their experimental results.
2851: I think the worry stems from a fundamental error in not distinguishing the difference between the very real recent advances in a particular aspect of AI and the enormity and complexity of building sentient volitional intelligence."
2852: Regulation is considered necessary to both encourage AI and manage associated risks.
2853: A common trope in these works began with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters.
2854: Isaac Asimov introduced the Three Laws of Robotics in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name.
2855: In the 1980s, artist Hajime Sorayama's Sexy Robots series were painted and published in Japan depicting the actual organic human form with lifelike muscular metallic skins and later "the Gynoids" book followed that was used by or influenced movie makers including George Lucas and other creatives.
2856: Biotechnology is a broad area of biology, involving the use of living systems and organisms to develop or make products.
2857: However, if the mass is critical only when the delayed neutrons are included, then the reaction can be controlled, for example by the introduction or removal of neutron absorbers.
2858: When the resulting nucleus is lighter than that of iron, energy is normally released; when the nucleus is heavier than that of iron, energy is generally absorbed.
2859: The remaining abundance of heavy elements, from nickel to uranium and beyond, is due to supernova nucleosynthesis, the R-process.
2860: Hydrogen bombs obtain their enormous destructive power from fusion, but their energy cannot be controlled.
2861: However, both of these devices operate at a net energy loss.
2862: Nuclear fusion was initially pursued only in theoretical stages during World War II, when scientists on the Manhattan Project (led by Edward Teller) investigated it as a method to build a bomb.
2863: Knowledge of the encodings of the knots and colors was suppressed by the Spanish conquistadors in the 16th century, and has not survived although simple quipu-like recording devices are still used in the Andean region.
2864: Zero was first used in India in the 7th century CE by Brahmagupta.
2865: Arabic mathematicians extended the system to include decimal fractions, and Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Ḵwārizmī wrote an important work about it in the 9th century.
2866: The binary system (base 2), was propagated in the 17th century by Gottfried Leibniz.
2867: The variables for which the equation has to be solved are also called unknowns, and the values of the unknowns that satisfy the equality are called solutions of the equation.
2868: A conditional equation is only true for particular values of the variables.
2869: They saw patterns of consumption and leisure as determined by relations of production, which led them to focus on class relations and the organization of production.
2870: It has since become strongly associated with Stuart Hall, who succeeded Hoggart as Director.
2871: These practices comprise the ways people do particular things (such as watching television or eating out) in a given culture.
2872: Watching television to view a public perspective on a historical event should not be thought of as culture unless referring to the medium of television itself, which may have been selected culturally; however, schoolchildren watching television after school with their friends to "fit in" certainly qualifies since there is no grounded reason for one's participation in this practice.
2873: Culture" for a cultural-studies researcher not only includes traditional high culture (the culture of ruling social groups) and popular culture, but also everyday meanings and practices.
2874: Scholars in the United Kingdom and the United States developed somewhat different versions of cultural studies after the late 1970s.
2875: This asserts that every integer has a unique factorization into primes.
2876: To show this, suppose we divide integers n by m (where m is nonzero).
2877: If 0 never occurs, then the algorithm can run at most m − 1 steps without using any remainder more than once.
2878: In mathematics, the natural numbers are those used for counting (as in "there are six coins on the table") and ordering (as in "this is the third largest city in the country").
2879: These chains of extensions make the natural numbers canonically embedded (identified) in the other number systems.
2880: The first major advance in abstraction was the use of numerals to represent numbers.
